FOR ONE ON WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER 15TH, THANK YOU FOR
EVERYONE JOINING US THIS
AFTERNOON.
NOW WE CAN GO AHEAD AND GET
STARTED WITH ROLL CALL EVERYONE
KENNEDY WILL GO AHEAD AND CALL
ON YOU AND WHEN SHE DOES,
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
POSITION ON THE COMMISSION AND
WHERE YOU'RE ZOOMING IN FROM
TODAY.
THANK YOU.
WELL, I APOLOGIZE ABOUT THAT
ALREADY SO I'M GOING TO GO
AHEAD AND DO ROLL CALL VICE
CHAIR KEILLER HERE FROM OUR
COLLEAGUE IN FROM ANN ARBOR ER
FAMING.
HI.
YES, GOOD AFTERNOON EVERYONE.
THIS IS JACK DAYMAN CHAIRMAN
AND I AM COMING TO YOU FROM ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
>> WASHTENAW COUNTY
COMMISSIONER MOSADDEQ AND THAT
AFTERNOON EVERYONE, I'M
KATHLEEN OZICK.
I'M CALLING IN FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN AND I AM A
COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER
FOLLMAN MATTHEW SOLOMON, THE
COMMISSIONER ANN ARBOR,
WASHTENAW COUNTY, USA
COMMISSIONER HAWKINS'
COMMISSIONER PASTOR
COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE.
>> HI EVERYBODY.
ALEX GOSSAGE, COMMISSIONER
CALLING IN FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
MISENER I'M SO SORRY TO MY WIFE
CITY COUNCIL CITY COUNCIL
MEMBER GODSE EDWIN
COMMISSIONER
RADCLYFFE PRESENT COMMISSIONER
RADCLYFFE CALLING IN FROM ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN COMMISSIONER
PACARD YES I'M RIGHT HERE
CALLING FROM ANN ARBOR AND
COMMISSIONER CHAMBERS HELLO.
>> I AM ELENA CHAMBERS CALLING
IN FROM ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
>> WE HAVE CALL.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH EVERYONE.
THANK YOU, KENNEDY.
NEXT I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE
PUBLIC COMMENT.
YES.
REALLY QUICK TO PUBLIC COMMENT
.
>> WE HAVE ANYONE HERE FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT.
I BELIEVE KATHLEEN WOULD LIKE
TO MAKE A PUBLIC COMMENT.
OK, GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
I JUST WANTED TO TAKE A MOMENT
TO LET EVERYONE KNOW THAT THERE
IS A LOCAL ADVISORY COUNCIL
THAT IS ATTACHED THE ANN ARBOR
AREA TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY.
THEY ARE LOOKING FOR MEMBERS
AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
MEMBERS.
THEY MEET THE SECOND TUESDAY
OF EVERY MONTH.
THEY ARE CURRENTLY MEETING VIA
ZOOME FROM ONE THIRTY TO THREE
P.M. HOW ARE THEY ARE
CONSIDERING POSSIBLY MEETING BI
MONTHLY BUT THAT HAS NOT BEEN
DECIDED.
IF YOU WANT MORE INFORMATION
YOU CAN GO TO THE RIG, YOU
CLICK ON LEADERSHIP AND AT THE
BOTTOM OF THE PAGE IT DESCRIBES
THE LOCAL ADVISORY COUNCIL.
IT HAS THEIR BYLAWS AND
EVERYTHING LISTED AND THERE'S
ALSO A PLACE TO CLICK ON HOW TO
EMAIL THEM OR YOU CAN CALL FOR
MORE INFORMATION AT SEVEN THREE
FOUR NINE SEVEN THREE SIX FIVE
ZERO ZERO.
THANK YOU SO MUCH COMMISSIONER
MOSAD.
>> DID YOU WANT ME TO PUT THAT
ON THE UNDER COMMUNICATION THAT
WOULD BE OH THAT WOULD BE
PERFECT.
THANK YOU SO OK WE'LL DO.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
HEY KENNEDY I JUST HAD A QUICK
QUESTION BECAUSE I JUST WANTED
TO MAKE SURE THAT THIS MEETING
IS FULLY ACCESSIBLE BUT I
DIDN'T SEE ANY POP UP FOR
CLOSED CAPTION.
>> DO WE KNOW IF THAT'S ACTIVE
RIGHT NOW IT'S WORKING IT'S
SHOWING UP ON RYAN.
OK, THANK YOU.
YOU SEE IT AT THE BOTTOM?
YES, I DO.
THANK NO PROBLEM.
YEP.
ALL RIGHT.
>> NEXT WE HAVE THE APPROVAL
OF TODAY'S AGENDA SO EVERYONE
SHOULD HAVE RECEIVED AN
ELECTRONIC COPY OF TODAY'S
AGENDA FOR REVIEW.
I WOULD JUST LIKE TO OPEN IT UP
IF THERE ARE ANY CORRECTIONS
THAT NEED TO BE MADE, IF THERE
ARE NO CORRECTIONS, DO WE HAVE
A MOTION TO APPROVE THE AGENDA?
>> THIS IS KATHLEEN.
>> I WILL MOVE TO APPROVE.
OK, THANK YOU.
I'M SORRY.
WHO SECONDED?
I DID.
THANK YOU.
YOU OK?
VICE CHAIRMAN KEILLER SECONDS
ON FAVOR OF APPROVING TODAY'S
AGENDA IF YOU COULD UNMUTED
PLEASE AND SAY AY AY AY AY AY.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> TODAY'S AGENDA HAS BEEN
APPROVED.
NEXT I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE DOWN
TO THE APPROVAL OF THE MEETING
MINUTES FROM OCTOBER AS YOU THE
MEETING MINUTES ARE ALSO ON THE
AGENDA.
PLEASE TAKE A MOMENT TO MENTION
AT THIS TIME IF THERE ARE ANY
CORRECTIONS TO THOSE MEETING
MINUTES, IF THERE ARE NOT, I
WOULD LIKE TO I WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
MEETING MINUTES FROM
OCTOBER .
COMMISSIONER BROZAK, I'LL GO
AHEAD AND MOVE TO APPROVE
.
OK, THANK YOU.
IS THERE A SECOND OR A SECOND
COMMISSIONER CLICK OK THANK
COMMISSIONER RADCLYFFE.
I'M ALL IN FAVOR OF APPROVING
THE MEETING MINUTES FROM THE
OCTOBER MEETING IF YOU COULD
PLEASE ON MUTE AND SAY I I I
THINK OK THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT NEXT I'D LIKE TO MOVE
DOWN TO OUR SPECIAL
PRESENTATION PORTION OF THE
AGENDA.
I WOULD LIKE TO WELCOME JADA
AND HER TEAM AT THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY FOR ALL
THE WORK THAT THEY'VE BEEN
DOING MAKING SURE THAT THE
COMMISSION IS INFORMED ON WHAT
THEY'RE DOING AND YOU KNOW,
WITH THAT I WILL TURN IT OVER
TO JADA AND THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY FOR THEIR
PRESENTATION BEFORE THEY START,
I WOULD LIKE TO LET ALL OF YOU
KNOW THAT I WILL OPEN IT UP FOR
Q&A AFTER THAT.
BUT DEPENDING ON THE LENGTH
OF THE RESPONSES WE MAY HAVE TO
MOVE FORWARD ON THAT.
YOU KNOW, IF IT EXCEEDS A
CERTAIN AMOUNT OF TIME.
BUT I WILL OPEN IT UP TO A
COUPLE OF QUESTIONS AFTER THE
PRESENTATION.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
AND AGAIN, MY NAME IS DAVID.
I'M THE PARKING MANAGER AT THE
ANN ARBOR DAY AND ARE VERY
HAPPY TO BE HERE TODAY.
OH KENNEDY ARE YOU ABLE TO TELL
ME IF MY COLLEAGUES FROM WALKER
ARE ON THE CALL CHRISTINE
MANCINI NICHOLS IS GOING TO BE
LEADING THE PRESENTATION TODAY?
>> YES, SHE IS ON THE CALL.
OK, THANK YOU.
SHE HAS YOUR HANDS.
>> OK, I HAVE A BRIEF VERY
BRIEF INTRODUCTION AND THEN I'M
GOING TO BE TURNING IT OVER TO
HER AND SHE CAN SHARE HER
SCREEN AND TALK THROUGH THE
PRESENTATION.
>> THAT'S OK.
THAT'S THAT'S PERFECTLY OK.
>> GREAT GREAT.
WELL THANK YOU AGAIN FOR HAVING
US HERE.
WE ATTENDED ONE OF YOUR
MEETINGS MAYBE A LITTLE OVER A
YEAR AGO AS OUR STUDY GOT
UNDERWAY AND WE APPRECIATE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK WITH YOU
AGAIN.
AS I SAID, I WANT TO LEAVE
PLENTY OF TIME FOR FOR CHRISSY
AND JEN TO DO THEIR
PRESENTATION BUT I THOUGHT IT
MIGHT BE HELPFUL TO SHARE A BIT
OF INFORMATION KIND OF HIGH
LEVEL INFORMATION.
AND IF YOU'RE SEEING CHRISTY
SCREEN OUTSHOOT, YOU MIGHT BE
SEEING A SLIDE ABOUT THE
PARKING SYSTEM.
BUT AGAIN, THIS IS JUST SOME
HIGH LEVEL INFORMATION FOR YOU
TO HAVE IN MIND AS YOU LEARN
MORE ABOUT OUR STUDY EXCUSE ME
DATA WE DON'T EXCUSE ME, JANE.
I DIDN'T MEAN TO INTERRUPT.
WE WE DON'T SEE ANYTHING AS
OF YET SO I'M SO SORRY I DIDN'T
MEAN TO INTERRUPT BUT I WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT EVERYONE CAN SEE
EVERYTHING FIRST.
>> OH, OK.
>> WELL LOOKS LIKE CHRIS IS
GETTING IT SET UP OK.
OK OK THANK YOU CHRIS.
SO THE DENHA HE MANAGES
OPERATES AND MAINTAINS THE
PUBLIC PARKING SYSTEM THROUGH
AN AGREEMENT WITH THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
THE PARKING FACILITIES ARE CITY
ASSETS.
WE MANAGE THEM IN SUPPORT
OF CITY ENGINEERING GOALS,
VALUES AND IN GENERAL TOWARDS A
VITAL AND VIBRANT DOWNTOWN.
THE PARKING SYSTEM IS
SELF-SUSTAINING SYSTEM SO THE
REVENUE IS PRODUCED IN THE
PARKING SYSTEM PAY FOR THE
SYSTEM AND THOSE REVENUES ALSO
SUPPORT OTHER TRANSPORTATION
ELEMENTS.
A GOOD EXAMPLE IS THE GO PASS
THAT IS FUNDED THROUGH THE
PARKING REVENUE.
NEXT SLIDE CHRISTIE TWENTY
PERCENT OF PARKING REVENUE GOES
BACK TO THE CITY TO THE GENERAL
FUND AND THEN SEPARATE FROM OUR
MANAGEMENT OF THE PARKING THE
CITY MANAGES AND RECEIVES
REVENUE FROM PARKING
ENFORCEMENT AND THE RESIDENTIAL
PARKING PROGRAM SO I JUST KIND
OF WANTED TO SET THE STAGE A
LITTLE BIT AND MAKE SURE WE ALL
KIND OF UNDERSTOOD THE
DIFFERENT ROLES AND
RESPONSIBILITIES SO I WILL TURN
IT OVER TO CHRIS.
THANK YOU
, CHRIS.
>> YET WE DON'T HEAR YOU HEAR
ME NOW.
YES.
THANK YOU ALL AND THANKS TO YOU
AGAIN AND HI EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS CHRIS AND WITH
WALKER CONSULTANTS AND I'M
JOINED BY MY COLLEAGUE JIM
CORBETT AND YOU'VE BEEN WORKING
WITH DATA AND OUR TEAM AT THE
DENHA ON THE CURB MANAGEMENT
STUDY AND WE JUST WANTED TO
START OUT BY SAYING THANKS FOR
HAVING US.
WE'VE BEEN LOOKING AT CRIME
MANAGEMENT IN THE AREA DOWNTOWN
AND YOU KNOW WHAT WE'RE SEEING
IS REALLY WHEN WE THINK ABOUT
BEST PRACTICES AND WORKING WITH
CITIES ACROSS THE COUNTRY, YOU
KNOW, ANN ARBOR REALLY HAS
ACHIEVED MANY OF THE BEST
PRACTICES WE WANT TO SEE FOR
OUR STREETS AND OUR CURB SPACE.
>> YOU BRING IN MORE ACCESS TO
PEOPLE WALKING, BIKING,
INCREASING SAFETY, INCREASED
ASSESSABLE YOU KNOW, PRETTY
MUCH IN ARBOR'S ONE OF THE BEST
PRACTICES THAT WE TALK ABOUT.
SO JUST WANT TO HIGHLIGHT THAT
AT THE BEGINNING OF THE STUDY
AND WHY THAT MATTERS IS WE
DON'T LOOK AT THE CURB SPACE AS
JUST A PIECE OF CONCRETE WHAT
WE DO AND HOW WE PRIORITIZE
CURB SPACE CAN SUPPORT LOTS
OF DIFFERENT GOALS FOR CLIMATE
,FOR TRANSPORTATION, FOR THE
PEOPLE FRIENDLY STREETS PROGRAM
.
SO THAT'S WHY IT'S SO IMPORTANT
TODAY TO TALK THROUGH THE STUDY
AND TALK WITH YOU AND GET YOUR
FEEDBACK SO FIRST STUFF WE
COLLECTED DATA TO UNDERSTAND
HOW THE HERBS ARE USED CITY
DOWNTOWN AND WE COLLECTED DATA
ON LIBERTY STREET AND KOREATOWN
AND THEN AREAS AROUND SOUTH
UNIVERSITY AND FOR US NEAR THE
UNIVERSITY AND WHAT WE FOUND
OVERALL WAS THAT THE CURB IS
HIGHLY UTILIZED.
THERE'S A LOT OF ACCESS
HAPPENING BUT THAT PARKING
METERS THERE'S A PYLES ISSUE
AND PARKING METERS ARE NOT
ENFORCED SO THAT'S THROWING
SOME PEAK TIMES OFF BALANCE AND
YOU'RE UNABLE TO MANAGE SOME
OF THESE PEAK TIMES CURB USE
MOST OF THE CURB SESSIONS AND
PARKING SESSIONS ARE VERY SHORT
TERM.
LESS THAN FIFTEEN MINUTES EVEN
LESS THAN FIVE MINUTES.
SO THAT'S A SIGNIFICANT BUT
ALSO SOMETHING WE'RE SEEING
ACROSS THE COUNTRY WITH SO MUCH
ONLINE SHOPPING AND FAST CASUAL
FOOD PICK UP AND DELIVERY.
THERE'S A LOT OF THESE VERY
SHORT TERM SOLUTIONS ALSO
PEOPLE ARE PARKING EVERYWHERE
TO CURB NO MATTER IF IT'S
REGULATED FOR PARKING OR NO
PARKING.
>> YOU KNOW, ESSENTIALLY, YOU
KNOW, IF IT'S AN ALLEY, IF IT'S
A DRIVEWAY, PEOPLE ARE JUST
TRYING TO FIND A SPACE BECAUSE
THEY HAVE THESE VERY SHORT
SESSIONS AND THEY'RE JUST
PARKING GETTING IN AND OUT
TRYING NOT TO GET THAT TICKET
BUT THAT GETS INTO THERE'S A
SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF CURB
VIOLATIONS OCCURRING AND WE
TALK ABOUT CURB VIOLATIONS.
WE COLLECTED DATA USING CAMERAS
SO WE SAW EVERYTHING THAT WAS
GOING ON AND THIS DOES NOT
INCLUDE CURBSIDE CURB TICKETS
OR PARKING TICKETS FOR
OVERSTAYING A METER.
THIS THIS IS JUST WHAT OUR
CAMERAS SHOWED IN TERMS
OF PEOPLE PARKING AND SPACES
NOT REGULATED FOR PARKING.
>> SO FOR EXAMPLE, 20 PERCENT
IN THE SOUTH UNIVERSITY STUDY
AREA ALMOST 20 PERCENT OF ALL
THE CURB SESSIONS WERE
VIOLATIONS.
THAT'S ABOUT A HUNDRED PER DAY.
THAT'S A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT
OF PEOPLE THAT CAUSES CONFLICT.
IT DECREASES ACCESS TO BUSINESS
THINGS THAT WE CARE ABOUT FOR
THE VITALITY OF DOWNTOWN AND
THOSE VIOLATIONS WERE AND HAD A
MEDIAN DURATION OF ONLY FOUR
MINUTES.
SO REALLY CHALLENGING TO
ENFORCE.
>> SO THAT'S WHAT WE WANT TO
TALK THROUGH WHEN WE SHOW YOU
THE DATA AND THEN OVERALL WE
ARE DEFINING SOME AREAS AROUND
DOWNTOWN INTO TYPOLOGY.
SO YOU KNOW, YOU HAVE YOUR
DENSE RESIDENTIAL FAST CASUAL
AREAS WITH A LOT OF DENSE
RETAIL IN RESTAURANTS LIKE A
MAIN STREET OR LIBERTY OR
FOREST, THEN MORE NEIGHBORHOOD
COMMERCIAL TYPE AREAS LIKE
TERRYTOWN.
AND THEN THERE'S THE AREAS
OUTSIDE OF DENSE RESIDENTIAL
WITH WHICH HAVE YOU KNOW,
MOSTLY THE SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
AND DUPLEXES.
YOU KNOW WHAT WE WANT TO TALK
ABOUT HERE IS YOU KNOW, THERE'S
A NEED FOR SHORT TERM SPACES.
THERE IS A NEED TO MOVE LONGER
TERM PARKING GARAGES ARE
THINKING ABOUT INCREASING RATES
OR EXPANDING METER TIMES.
BUT YOU KNOW, WHEN WE TALK
ABOUT REMOVING PARKING, WE
REALLY APPRECIATE THE NUANCE
THAT SOME PEOPLE HAVE TO DRIVE
IN PARK.
>> YOU KNOW, SO IT'S NOT EITHER
OR IF WE WANT TO BUILD A BIKE
LANE IF YOU WANT TO BUILD A
TRANSIT LANE WE'RE REALLY
THINKING ABOUT WELL WHERE'S THE
PARKING SPILLOVER GOING TO GO?
HOW DO WE MAINTAIN ACCESS TO
BUSINESS AND ACCESS TO EVERYONE
THAT NEEDS TO ARRIVE NO MATTER
THEIR TRAVEL MODE.
SO I THINKING THROUGH THAT
NUANCE IS REALLY IMPORTANT FOR
PROVIDING ACCESS TO ALL
OF THESE LOCATIONS.
SO JUST GETTING INTO THE DATA
QUICKLY.
SO HERE YOU CAN SEE IN
KOREATOWN AND LIBERTY STREET
SIXTY PERCENT OF ALL THE
CURBSIDE AUCTIONS WERE LESS
THAN 15 MINUTES VERY SHORT
SESSIONS STUDY PEAKS THROUGHOUT
THE DAY ALMOST TO EIGHT P.M.
AND THEN YOU CAN SEE THIS RED
CIRCLE HERE IS WHEN
METERS
AREN'T ENFORCED THERE'S STILL A
PRETTY HIGH PEAK OF PEOPLE
PARKING AT THAT TIME AND THEN
YOU CAN SEE THE WE LOOKED AT
THE METER TRANSACTION COMPARED
TO WHAT OUR CAMERA DATA SHOWED
AN ACTUAL VIEWS AND YOU CAN SEE
THIS ARROW IS POINTING TO THE
GAP OF THE PEOPLE THAT ARE
PAYING FOR METERS VERSUS
ACTUALLY USING THE CURB SPACE
FOR PARKING.
SO THAT'S SIGNIFICANT BECAUSE
PEOPLE AREN'T ADHERING TO THE
REGULATION AGAIN, IT'S THEY'RE
ALL VERY SHORT SESSION SO
PEOPLE ARE EITHER TRYING TO
AVOID PAYING THE METER AND
HOPING THEY GET AWAY WITH IT.
NOT UNLIKE MANY CITIES IN
UNIVERSITY STUDY AREA AGAIN
ABOUT TWO THIRDS OF VEHICLES
WERE PARKING FOR LESS THAN
FIFTEEN MINUTES AND YOU CAN SEE
TWENTY PERCENT OF ALL THE CURB
SESSIONS WERE UNDER TWO
MINUTES.
SO THIS IS VERY SHORT TERM
STAYS AGAIN CITY FLOW OF OF
OCCUPANCY THROUGHOUT THE DAY
AND AGAIN IN THIS UNIVERSITY
STUDY AREA YOU CAN SEE THAT
CIRCLE THAT HIGHLIGHTS A PEAK
TIME OF PARKING WHEN THE METERS
AREN'T ENFORCED AND YOU GET A
BIG GAP BETWEEN PARKING METER
PAYMENTS AND CURB USES SO
PEOPLE JUST AREN'T PAYING THAT
METER BECAUSE THEY'RE PARKING
FOR ONLY A FEW MINUTES AND
TRYING TO GET AWAY, YOU KNOW,
NOT HAVE TO PAY THE METER.
>> AND IF YOU LOOK AT IT ON A
MAP WHEN I WE TALKED ABOUT THAT
AREA IS OF NO PARKING ARE STILL
FUNCTIONING AS PARKING.
SO THIS IS LIBERI STREET.
YOU CAN SEE THERE'S A SIDE
OF THE STREET THAT HAS TO OUR
PARKING A SIDE WITH NO PARKING.
THESE DOTS ARE OUR CURBSIDE IS
ESSENTIALLY OPERATING THE SAME
WAY THIS AREA RIGHT HERE AS A
COFFEE THERE'S A STARBUCKS ON
THE CORNER ESSENTIALLY THESE
ARE ALL ONE FIVE MINUTES CURB
DAYS, PEOPLE JUST RUNNING TO
GET COFFEE IN THIS NO PARKING
ZONE ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF LIBERTY.
YOU KNOW THAT IT'S JUST
ESSENTIALLY NO MATTER THE
REGULATION IT'S OPERATING
EFFECTIVELY AS PARKING AND YOU
CAN SEE THAT IN KOREATOWN TO
THERE'S A NO PARKING.
THIS IS THE FIVE HUNDRED BLOCK
OF NORTH FIFTH NO A NO PARKING
AREA THAT'S OPERATING AS
PARKING.
>> BUT YOU CAN ALSO SEE THERE
IS A FIFTEEN MINUTE CURB HERE
AND PEOPLE ARE LARGELY ADHERING
TO THAT REGULATION MOSTLY
BECAUSE THOSE DAYS ARE VERY
SHORT TERM SESSION.
SO THAT ENABLES A LOT
OF TURNOVER AND THEN SAME THING
IN SOUTH THE UNIVERSITY AREA
THIS IS THE TWELVE HUNDRED
BLOCK SOUTH THE UNIVERSITY AND
TO NOTE HERE THERE'S FIFTEEN
HUNDRED OVER FIFTEEN HUNDRED
CURB SESSIONS THAT WE VIEWED
DURING OUR STUDY PERIOD WHICH
WAS A WEEK AND THAT JUST SHOWS
A HIGH AMOUNT OF ACCESS BEING
PROVIDED ON THE STREET TO
BUSINESSES.
BUT AGAIN JUST A LOT
OF TURNOVER, A LOT OF PARKING
IN FRONT OF THE DRIVEWAY AT THE
CROSSWALK, THINGS THAT WE WANT
TO AVOID FOR SAFETY REASONS.
SO THAT GETS INTO OUR
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE STUDY.
WE DO NEED TO REFORM SOME
OF THE PARKING RATES, HAVE MORE
SHORT TERM SPACES, UPDATE
ENFORCEMENT HOURS, DEVELOP
STANDARDS FOR LOADING AND ADA
HAVE A MORE YOU KNOW, THINK
THROUGH A MORE MODERNIZED
ENFORCEMENT STRATEGY.
IT'S VERY CHALLENGING TO
ENFORCE SOME OF THESE SHORT
TERM SESSIONS BECAUSE THERE'S
SO MANY OF THEM WITH WITH THE
TRADITIONAL WAYS THAT WE'VE
ENFORCED PARKING AND CURB USE
AND THIS IS NOT UNIQUE TO ANN
ARBOR.
WE'RE SEEING THIS ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY.
SO DEVELOPING A MORE MODERN
ENFORCEMENT STRATEGY AND THEN
YOU KNOW, OVER THE LONG TERM
THINGS LIKE PACKAGE BLOCKERS,
MORE DATA COLLECTION, MORE PAID
USERS I'M THINKING ABOUT
CHARGING FOR ALL USES OF A CURB
NOT JUST PARKING AND HAPPY TO
ANSWER ANY MORE DETAILS ON THE
RECOMMENDATIONS DURING Q&A AND
ONE THING WE DID WANT TO
MENTION IS THE STANDARD FOR
NEWLY CONSTRUCTED STREETS WHERE
IT'S FEASIBLE.
THERE'S A NEW USDOT THE AG
PROPOSED PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY
ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES WILL
BE COMING OUT AND THE
RECOMMENDED ADA PARKING SPACES
FOR ON-STREET WHICH IS THIS IS
NEW YOU KNOW THERE'S ALWAYS
BEEN AN IDIOT REQUIREMENT FOR
OFF STREET BUT THERE HASN'T
BEEN ONE FOR FURTHER ON STREET
SPACES.
SO YOU KNOW, THE NEW
REQUIREMENT IS ONE ACCESSIBLE
SPACE FOR EVERY TWENTY FIVE
SPACES FOR IT FOR THOSE NEWLY
CONSTRUCTED STREETS WHERE IT'S
FEASIBLE.
YOU KNOW THAT'S WHAT WE WOULD
RECOMMEND AS PART OF THE STUDY
AND YOU KNOW THIS IS AN EXAMPLE
OF JUST HOW THE DENHA AND THE
CITY ARE REALLY THINKING
THROUGH SOME OF THESE
TREATMENTS.
THIS IS AN EXAMPLE OF HOW A
RECOMMENDATION WOULD PLAY OUT
IS THE WILLIAM STREET BIKEWAY
THIS THE WILLIAM STREET BIKEWAY
WAS PREVIOUSLY A TRAVEL LANE IN
A PARKING LANE.
THE IT WAS MOVED INTO A
SEPARATED BIKEWAY REMOVED
SIXTEEN PARKING SPACES BUT
MAINTAIN PARKING ON ONE SIDE
OF THE STREET BECAUSE WE KNOW
THAT PEOPLE ARE STILL NEED
ACCESS TO SOME OF THOSE
BUSINESSES WITH PARKING.
BUT THEN WHAT CONTRIBUTED TO
THE SUCCESS OF THIS BIKE?
THERE'S A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT
OF BIKES TRAVELING ON THE
WILLIAM STREET PARKWAY EVERY
DAY.
YOU KNOW IT'S IT'S THINKING
THROUGH THE SPILLOVER LIKE
WHERE CAN WE MAINTAIN A PARKING
NEARBY?
WHERE CAN YOU RELOCATE SHORT
TERM PARKING ZONES KEEPING
PARKING ON ONE SIDE OF THE
STREET LIKE I SAID AND AND THEN
JUST TAKING THAT ITERATIVE
APPROACH FOR MANAGING THE BIKE
LANE.
IT STARTED OUT WITH JUST
DELINEATOR TO DETER ILLEGAL
PARKING AND THEN YOU OBSERVE
OBSERVATION SHOW THAT PEOPLE
WERE STILL PARKING THE BIKE
LANE.
SO THAT'S NOW GOING TO MOVE TO
CONCRETE CURBS TO PREVENT THAT
ILLEGAL PARKING.
SO YOU KNOW, THIS IS JUST IT'S
A IT'LL BE A CONSTANT ITERATIVE
PROCESS OF TESTING DATA
COLLECTION, MANAGING THOSE
SPILLOVER AND THINKING THROUGH
THAT NUANCE OF WHO NEEDS ACCESS
TO THE CURB AND HOW YOU PROVIDE
IT.
SO WITH THAT CAN ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS YOU MIGHT HAVE AND
THANK YOU SO MUCH CHRISTIE FOR
THAT PRESENTATION AND JADA AS
WELL.
A LOT OF INTERESTING POINTS.
ONE THING I WANTED TO QUICKLY
MENTION THAT I NOTICED THE A
LOT OF INDIVIDUALS WITH THAT
ACTIVITY THAT YOU MENTIONED
EARLIER AND I BELIEVE IT'S
MAINLY DOOR DASH DRIVERS AND
THINGS OF THAT SORT THAT ARE
KIND OF YOU KNOW, DOING THOSE
THINGS INCLUDING RESIDENTS.
I'M CURIOUS REALLY QUICK.
YOU KNOW, IT'S PROBABLY
UNDETECTABLE TO REALLY KNOW
WHETHER THOSE INDIVIDUALS ARE
JORDACHE DRIVERS AND YOU KNOW
WHAT THEIR SPECIFICITY IS IN
TERMS OF WHO THEY ARE AND WHAT
THEY'RE DOING.
BUT I JUST THOUGHT THAT WAS
INTERESTING BUT IT LOOKS LIKE
WE HAVE A FEW QUESTIONS.
SO I'LL START WITH COMMISSIONER
SULLIVAN.
>> I SO I HAVE TO BEGIN WITH
SOME DISAPPOINTMENT THAT THIS
PRESENTATION WASN'T A LITTLE
MORE TAILORED TO THE NEEDS
OF THE DISABILITY COMMUNITY
BECAUSE WE, AS YOU CAN IMAGINE,
ARE LESS CONCERNED ABOUT ISSUES
REVENUE SHORTFALL AND
ENFORCEMENT THAN WE ARE ABOUT
ISSUES OF ACCESSIBILITY.
SO I WAS JUST VERY SURPRISED AT
HOW LITTLE DATA YOU WERE
PRESENTING ABOUT DISABLED
PARKING SPECIFICALLY WHETHER
THAT ONE OUT OF TWENTY FIVE IS
SUFFICIENT, HOW MANY OF THE
VIOLATIONS ARE UNLAWFUL PARKING
ABILITY SPACES?
SO IT JUST FELT LIKE A COMPLETE
AFTERTHOUGHT.
WHAT OUR MAIN CONCERN IS SO I'M
CURIOUS WAS ANY DATA GATHERED
AND I HAVE A FOLLOW QUESTION
ABOUT BIKE LANES BUT I'D LIKE
TO KNOW TO WHAT EXTENT DISABLED
PARKING AND THE NEEDS OF THE
DISABILITY COMMUNITY WERE A
CONCERN.
AGAIN, WE'RE NOT INTERESTED IN
ENFORCEMENT AND REVENUE
COLLECTION ON THIS BODY.
YEAH, I MEAN OBVIOUSLY THAT'S A
MAJOR CONCERN AND THINKING
THROUGH THESE TRADE OFFS
THERE'S OFTEN A PUSH TO REMOVE
PARKING BUT WE WANT TO MAINTAIN
THAT WE NEED TO HAVE ADA
PARKING AND KEEP THOSE SPACES
IN PLACE.
WE COLLECTED ONE OF THE STUDY
AREAS WE DID COLLECT SOME DATA
ON DIFFERENT ADA PARKING
SPACES.
>> YOU KNOW, WE WEREN'T LOOKING
SPECIFICALLY IF THE THE PARK
HAD A PLACARD BUT WE DID SOME
OBSERVATIONS AROUND THAT JUST
BECAUSE THE CAMERA DATA CAN'T
AND CAN'T SEE INSIDE THE
VEHICLE.
>> SO WE DID SOME OBSERVATIONS
AROUND PLACARDS AND USE BUT I
THINK THAT'S WHY WE'RE HERE
TODAY.
THE STUDY IS NOT FINAL SO WE
DEFINITELY ARE HERE TO GET YOUR
INPUT IN TERMS OF PRO
REQUIREMENTS.
THOSE ARE NEW USDOT
SO WE WANT TO ADHERE TO THOSE
REQUIREMENTS.
STANDARDS BUT YOU KNOW, WANT TO
SO WE WANT TO ADHERE TO THOSE
UNDERSTAND YOUR INPUT OR YOU
STANDARDS BUT YOU KNOW, WANT TO
KNOW, CHALLENGES YOU'RE SEEING
UNDERSTAND YOUR INPUT OR YOU
SAFETY CONCERNS TO THAT NEED.
KNOW, CHALLENGES YOU'RE SEEING
>> WE NEED A LOT MORE DATA AND
SAFETY CONCERNS TO THAT NEED.
WE NEED TO KNOW WHETHER ONE OUT
>> WE NEED A LOT MORE DATA AND
OF TWENTY FIVE IS SUFFICIENT
WE NEED TO KNOW WHETHER ONE OUT
FOR OUR COMMUNITY.
OF TWENTY FIVE IS SUFFICIENT
I DON'T THINK THIS BODY
IS JUST
ABOUT COMPLIANCE.
THIS BODY IS ABOUT
ACCESSIBILITY.
SO I THINK IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
THAT YOU RECENTER THE STUDY TO
REALLY THINK ABOUT WHETHER OR
NOT THAT IS ENOUGH SPACES ARE
PEOPLE PARKING UNLAWFULLY AND
BLOCKING DISABLED ACCESS
THROUGH UNLAWFUL PARKING.
HOW IS THAT ENFORCEMENT TAKING
PLACE, PEOPLE WITHOUT PLACARDS
AND THEN THE ISSUE OF WHETHER
BIKE LANES ARE NEGATIVELY
IMPACTING ACCESSIBILITY FOR THE
DISABILITY COMMUNITY.
THOSE SHOULD BE DATA POINTS
THAT ARE GENERATED BY THIS
STUDY.
THAT'S MY PLEA.
THAT'S MY INSISTENCE.
THIS IS JADA SPEAKING.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT IT
CERTAINLY WAS NOT AN
AFTERTHOUGHT ON OUR PART.
AND ONE THING THAT WE LEARNED
THROUGH THIS STUDY IS THAT THE
DATA IS AS DIFFICULT TO COLLECT
AND ANALYZE.
WE HAD CAMERAS MOUNTED AND THEN
FIRM TO ANALYZE THAT.
SO WE'RE WORKING THROUGH
INTERNALLY KIND OF WHAT ARE
MEASUREMENTS, WHAT ARE DATA
COLLECTION PROCESSES LOOK LIKE
SO WE CAN FINE TUNE IT A BIT
MORE.
BUT YOU KNOW, AS CHRISTINE
MENTIONED KIND OF OVERALL SHORT
TERM USE OF THE CURVE WE KNOW
IS SPILLING OVER INTO THINGS
LIKE CROSSWALKS OR A.D.A SPACES
.
SO WE'RE HOPING THAT A LOT
OF OUR WORK TO ADD SHORT TERM
SPACE WORK WITH OUR PARTNERS AT
THE CITY ABOUT ENFORCEMENT WILL
HELP TO ALLEVIATE SOME OF THAT
BAD BEHAVIOR.
BUT PLEASE NOT IT WAS NOT AN
AFTERTHOUGHT AND WE CONTINUE TO
REFINE HOW WE COLLECT DATA
AROUND USE ONE THOUGHT WOULD BE
TO COLLECT SPECIFIC DATA ON
UNLAWFUL PARKING IN DISABLED
SPOTS.
WHO IS PARKING WITHOUT A
PLACARD?
THAT IS THE DATA THAT WE NEED
TO KNOW BECAUSE THAT'S GOING TO
HELP US FIGURE OUT IF ONE OUT
OF TWENTY FIVE IS ENOUGH OR
WHETHER IN FACT THERE NEEDS TO
BE MORE DISABLED PARKING SO
WITHOUT THAT DATA WE'RE UNABLE
TO MAKE A JUDGMENT.
WE'RE NOT UNABLE TO ADVOCATE
FOR DIFFERENT LEGISLATION.
SO I WOULD PLEAD FOR YOU TO
MAKE THAT A DATA COLLECTION
CALL CERTAINLY.
>> AND WE'LL KEEP THAT IN MIND
AS WE CONTINUE OUR
CONVERSATIONS WITH ENFORCEMENT
AND SEE WHAT DATA THEY HAVE IN
THEIR SYSTEM ALREADY.
>> THANK YOU.
AND THAT EXCUSE ME ONE SECOND.
I JUST WANTED TO MAKE ONE QUICK
COMMENT.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
SALMINEN YOU AS YOU MAKE THOSE
ADJUSTMENTS, I ENCOURAGE YOU TO
PRESENT AGAIN THOSE FINDINGS
AND THE ADJUSTMENTS THAT YOU
MAKE SO THAT WE CAN CAN SEE
THAT DATA.
COMMISSIONER MOSADDEQ, PARDON
ME FOR INTERRUPTING KENNEDY HI
EVERYONE.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR THIS
PRESENTATION.
I ECHO A LOT OF WHAT MR.
SOLOMON SHARED AND I WANT TO
PIGGYBACK ON THAT ESPECIALLY
WHEN IT COMES TO YOUR CALLING
THE MEDIA SPOTS BUT REALLY
THEY'RE ACCESSIBLE SPOTS AND MY
CONCERN SPECIFICALLY IS ONE IN
TWENTY FIVE DOESN'T SEEM TO BE
ENOUGH ESPECIALLY WITH OUR
AGING POPULATION THAT WE HAVE
HERE.
EVERY ONE IT'S HARD ENOUGH TO
GET A SPOT SAY ADAMIYA DURING
PEAK HOURS BECAUSE AND THEY
HAVE A TON OF DISABILITIES,
LOTS AVAILABLE.
BUT MY MAIN CONCERN IS WHEN
YOU'RE SEEING ACCESSIBLE SPOTS
ARE YOU TAKING INTO ACCOUNT
THAN ACCESSIBLE SPOTS PEOPLE
WHO HAVE RAMPS OR LIFTS THAT
WOULD NEED TO USE THOSE SPOTS
AND ACCESS THE SIDEWALK IF ONE
IN TWENTY FIVE IS JUST A
HANDICAPPED ACCESSIBLE SPOT BUT
IT'S NOT A VAN ACCESSIBLE SPOT,
THEN HOW MANY VAN ACCESSIBLE
SPOTS ARE YOU GOING TO YOU KNOW
IS IT ONE IN ONE HUNDRED?
YOU KNOW I DON'T UNDERSTAND.
>> WELL THERE'S NOT CLEAR
GUIDANCE FROM FEDERAL
REGULATIONS RIGHT NOW ON THE
BEING INACCESSIBLE SPOTS FOR ON
STREET PARKING BUT THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT WE WANT TO LOOK
MORE LOCALLY AND FIGURE OUT HOW
THAT FITS IN TO THE ONE IN
TWENTY FIVE OR WHATEVER THIS
THE STANDARD IS.
SO I THINK JAIDEN AND OUR TEAM
CAN TALK MORE ABOUT AGAIN THE
DATA COLLECTION PRACTICES THAT
WE'VE BEEN TRYING TO REFINE AND
FIGURE OUT WHAT THAT NUMBER IS
BECAUSE YEAH I MEAN IT'S NOT
JUST CAR ACCESSIBLE AND
ACCESSIBILITY IS OBVIOUSLY A
STANDARD WE NEED TO FIGURE OUT
TO BE CAREFUL IF I MAY I
REMEMBER WHEN WE WERE HERE LAST
TIME THAT WAS SOMETHING THAT
PERHAPS YOU OR ANOTHER
COMMISSIONER BROUGHT UP ABOUT
KIND OF INTERFERENCES ON THE
SIDEWALK SIDE AND YOU KNOW,
SOME OF THIS IS US THINKING
ABOUT WHERE WE HAVE OUR OWN
AUTHORITY TO ACT AND WHERE WE
NEED TO WORK WITH OUR PARTNERS
AT THE CITY.
BUT CERTAINLY WE KNOW THERE'S A
LOT HAPPENING ON THE SIDEWALK
SIDE AS WELL THAT NEEDS TO BE
CONSIDERED PLACING THOSE SPACES
.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, COMMISSIONER
HAWKINS
.
HI, THIS IS RACHEL HAWKINS.
I JUST WANT TO CONTRIBUTE TO
THE DISCUSSION IN TERMS
OF SOMETHING THAT ZACH HAD SAID
JUST KNOWING THAT SPECIFIC
BLOCK VERY WELL.
WHAT I'VE TENDED TO SEE IS A
LOT OF TIMES THEY ARE JORDACHE
DRIVERS USUALLY DROPPING OFF
FOR TOWER PLAZA WHICH IS A LOT
OF UNITS AND SO THEY'LL PULL
THERE'S THEY HAVE A PARKING
BEHIND TOWER PLAZA BUT THEY
WILL PULL HALFWAY ONTO INTO THE
DRIVEWAY CUTTING OFF THE ACCESS
TO THE BIKE LANE AND GOING ONTO
THE SIDEWALK.
>> SO I FEEL LIKE THAT SEEMS TO
BE A SUPER COMMON PROBLEM.
SO I AND I KNOW THAT DOES
REALLY SPEAK TO THE QUESTIONS
ABOUT LIKE THE ACCESSIBLE
PARKING SPOTS AND HOW MANY
OF THEM ARE ARE WHEELCHAIR
ACCESSIBLE BUT JUST WANTED TO
MENTION THAT AS WELL BECAUSE
THAT CAN BECOME A REAL SAFETY
HAZARD.
BIKES COMING UP AND DOWN THE
LANES WHERE THEY'RE TRYING TO
HAVE TO GO AROUND A CAR THAT'S
LITERALLY IN THE BIKE LANE
.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER PACARD
,THIS IS COMMISSIONER PACKARD.
THANKS FOR THE ATTENTION ON THE
BIKE LANES.
I DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S ANY WAY
TO CALCULATE HOW MANY DISABLED
PARKING SPOTS ARE ELIMINATED IN
GENERAL OR FOR THAT I'M CURIOUS
HOW YOU'RE ABLE TO COMPILE LIKE
A HANDICAP PARKING VIOLATIONS
IF IT'S FROM LOOKING TICKETING
OR YOU SAID YOU DID CAMERA WORK
TO TRY AND SEARCH FOR HOW OFTEN
PEOPLE WHO SHOULDN'T PARKING
THERE ARE THERE AND IF THERE'S
ANYTHING WE CAN DO TO HELP I
DON'T KNOW MAYBE IF WE EVER TRY
TO PARK AND NOTICE THAT IT'S A
VIOLATION OURSELVES A IT HAS TO
BE A TOUGH JOB TO GET AN
ACCURATE NUMBER ON THAT AND
YEAH.
SO WHAT I WILL DO IS WORK WITH
ENFORCEMENT TO TRY AND GET THAT
DATA, SEE WHAT DATA THEY HAVE
AVAILABLE.
LIKE JADA SAID, WE'RE WE'RE
DEVELOPING A DATA COLLECTION
STRATEGY TO HAVE MORE ROBUST
DATA INFORMATION.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE'LL
TRY AND TRACK TO SEE WHAT
VIOLATION ARE OCCURRING IN
THOSE SPACES SO THAT WE HAVE A
NUMBER AND UNDERSTAND HOW THAT
WOULD IMPACT THE STANDARD YOU
STUDY WILL CONTINUE.
WELL, WE'RE GOING THROUGH WE'RE
TALKING TO YOU AND THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
GETTING FEEDBACK SO WE'RE GOING
TO TAKE THIS FEEDBACK AND THEN
WORK AS A TEAM AGAIN TO REFINE
OUR STRATEGIES AND LOOKING TO
HAVE SOMETHING OUT EARLY NEXT
YEAR.
>> IF I COULD JUST ADD ONE
COMMENT ABOUT THAT SOULSVILLE
KIND OF WRAP UP WHAT WE'RE
WORKING ON NOW BUT OF COURSE
THIS IS LIKE A LIVING BREATHING
YOU KNOW, STUDY IN A WAY WILL
KIND OF SUMMARIZE OUR FINDINGS
AND START WORKING ON OUR
TOOLKITS AND THAT SORT OF THING
THAT WE'LL HAVE TO WORK FROM.
BUT AS THE CITY CIRCULATION
STUDY AND OTHER PLANNING
HAPPENS, I MEAN THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT WE'RE GOING TO
BE CONSTANTLY REVISITING.
SO IF YOU HEAR OR SEE SOME
DOCUMENTS THAT APPEAR TO BE
FINAL, PLEASE KNOW THAT I MEAN
WE KNOW THIS IS AN ONGOING
PROCESS AROUND MANAGING ACCESS
FOR THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
CHRISSY AND JADA FOR THOSE
STATEMENTS.
AND YOU KNOW, I AGAIN I REALLY
LOOK FORWARD TO THE FOLLOW UP
ON THAT AND THE FOCUS, YOU
KNOW, OF A.D.A AND YOU KNOW HOW
THAT RELATES.
I'M I'M GOING TO CALL ON
COMMISSIONER RADCLYFFE AND THAT
WILL BE OUR FINAL QUESTION.
I'M SO SORRY BECAUSE I KNOW
WE'LL HAVE TO MOVE ON.
>> BUT COMMISSIONER RADCLYFFE,
I GUESS FIRST OF ALL I WANT TO
ECHO WHAT THE OTHER
COMMISSIONERS HAVE SAID BUT I'D
ALSO LIKE TO ADD THAT YOU WHEN
THERE IS A GUIDANCE FROM THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT THAT'S
TYPICALLY LIKE A BARE MINIMUM
STANDARD, YOU'RE YOU KNOW, WE
CAN GO ABOVE THAT DEPENDING ON
THE CITY'S NEEDS AND ALSO IT
WOULD LIKE TO
SUGGEST THAT
SOMETIME WHERE I'VE LIVED IN
THE PAST CITIES WHEN THEY'VE
KIND OF GOTTEN STOMPED ON A
FEDERAL GUIDANCE OR BY
SOMETHING THAT PARTICULAR
DEPARTMENT FROM THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT HAS PEOPLE THERE TO
ASSIST WITH TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE AND IN THE PAST
THEY'VE BEEN REALLY GOOD ABOUT
THAT LIKE WORKING THROUGH THE
INDIVIDUAL SITUATION WITHIN A
MUNICIPALITY AS WELL AS BASED
ON THE BROAD KNOWLEDGE THAT
THEY HAVE.
AND SO THAT MIGHT BE SOMETHING
TO LOOK FOR, LOOK TOWARDS DOING
AS WELL.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
RADCLYFFE AND JADA AND CHRISSY.
I JUST WANT TO ALSO STATE THAT
IF THERE ARE COMMISSIONERS THAT
HAVE OTHER THINGS THEY WANT TO
CONTINUE TO BRING UP WITH YOU
OR YOU MEMBERS OF OUR
COMMISSION THAT WANT TO GATHER
SOME OF THE HELP YOU GATHER
SOME OF THEIR DATA OR HAVE YOU
GUYS ANSWER SOME OTHER
QUESTIONS?
YOU KNOW, DO WE HAVE THE
PRIVILEGE OF REACHING OUT TO
YOU TO TO GET FURTHER
INFORMATION?
>> CERTAINLY I PLAN ON SENDING
CHRIS'S PRESENTATION AND I WILL
INCLUDE MY CONTACT INFORMATION
AND HAPPY TO CONNECT WITH
ANYBODY AT ANY TIME ABOUT THIS
WONDERFUL.
SO I ENCOURAGE ANYONE WHO HAS
ANY QUESTIONS THAT WAS NOT ABLE
TO ASK ANY QUESTIONS TODAY OR
GET ANY VALID ANSWERS.
YOU KNOW, JADA, THANK YOU.
ONCE YOU AND CHRIS FOLLOW UP I
WILL DEFINITELY GET THAT
INFORMATION TO OUR
COMMISSIONERS AND HOPEFULLY OUR
COMMISSIONERS THEN CAN FOLLOW
UP AND THEN KEEP MYSELF AND THE
REST OF US INFORMED WHAT IS
WHAT IS TALKED ABOUT.
BUT I WANT TO THANK BOTH OF OR
FOR PRESENTING THIS AFTERNOON.
THANK YOU.
ABSOLUTELY.
NEXT ON OUR PRESENTATIONS, I
WOULD LIKE TO MOVE FORWARD WITH
THE WASHTENAW LIBRARY FOR THE
BLIND AND PHYSICALLY DISABLED
AND KATIE MIENTKIEWICZ.
>> WELCOME, KATIE.
HI.
THANKS EVERYBODY.
FOR HAVING ME.
HAPPY TO BE HERE AS USUAL.
I JUST HAVE A COUPLE OF THINGS
TO SHARE WITH YOU TODAY AND I
WE HAVE SOME UPCOMING EVENTS
COMING UP AT THE LIBRARY AND WE
HAVE A WINTER COAT SWAP.
THIS IS GOING TO BE HAPPENING
ON SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 19TH FROM
TWO TO THREE THIRTY P.M. AT THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY AND I'M IN OUR
MULTIPURPOSE ROOM.
SO IF YOU'RE LOOKING FOR A NEW
WINTER COAT , COME BY AND TRY
ON AND PICK UP A NEW TO YOU
COAT .
YOU DO NOT NEED TO BRING
ANYTHING IN ORDER TO PICK UP A
COAT AND THE LIBRARY WILL BE
ACCEPTING COATS AND JACKETS AT
ALL LOCATIONS UNTIL NOVEMBER
17TH.
SO YOU'VE GOT ABOUT TWO MORE
DAYS IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO MAKE
A DONATION PLEASE MAKE SURE THE
ITEMS ARE IN GOOD CONDITION AND
FRESHLY LAUNDERED AND WE ARE
NOT ACCEPTING ITEMS THE DAY
OF THAT EVENT ONLY PRIOR TO WE
ALSO HAVE MENTAL FITNESS
WORKOUT AND WORKSHOP CALLED
UNLOCKING YOUR FULL POTENTIAL.
THIS IS ALSO ON SUNDAY,
NOVEMBER 19TH THIS WILL BE FROM
THREE TO FOUR THIRTY PM AT THE
WEST GATE BRANCH.
ARE YOU CONSTANTLY EXPERIENCING
STRESS, BURNOUT, ANXIETY,
BEATING YOURSELF UP FOR
MISTAKES, FIXATED ON WHAT MIGHT
HAPPEN IF YOU FAIL MORE THAN
LIKELY YOUR SABOTAGE OR MENTAL
STOPPERS ARE RUNNING THE SHOW
AND YOUR MENTAL FITNESS IS
RUNNING WEAK MENTAL ILLNESS IS
YOUR WAY.
MENTAL FITNESS IS YOUR WAY
OF EXPERIENCING AND CREATING
YOUR LIFE.
IN THIS WORKSHOP WE WILL UNLOCK
NEW SELF DISCOVERIES THAT WILL
INCREASE YOUR INNER POWER
CONNECTION AND INNER PEACE.
YOU WILL LEAVE WITH PRACTICAL
TIPS AND TOOLS TO RECOVER FROM
STRESS OVERTHINKS FEELING STUCK
AND TO STRENGTHEN YOUR AGILITY
TO CREATE WITH EACH MOMENT
RATHER THAN LETTING THE MOMENT
CREATE YOU AND THE LIBRARY
INTENDS TO PROVIDE A LIVE
STREAM OF THIS EVENT.
WE'RE JUST PENDING THE
PRESENTERS PERMISSIONS IF YOU
CHECK BACK CLOSER TO THE EVENT
ON OUR WEBSITE WE ARE HOPING TO
HAVE A LINK UP SO THAT YOU CAN
WATCH THIS NOT IN PERSON IF
THAT IS MORE COMFORTABLE AND
AND NOW WE'LL TALK ABOUT SOME
MATERIALS.
SO AS USUAL, THE NATIONAL
LIBRARY FOR THE BLIND AND PRINT
DISABLED PATRONS CAN ORDER
DIGITAL CARTRIDGES AND OTHER
MATERIALS BY CALLING US AT
SEVEN THREE FOUR THREE TWO
SEVEN FOUR TWO TO FOUR OR YOU
CAN EMAIL US AT W.L. B P D
ADIELE DOUG, YOU CAN SIGN UP
FOR THE BRAILLE AND AUDIO
READING SERVICE BARRED TO
DOWNLOAD YOUR OWN BOOKS.
NO WAITING YOU CAN VISIT AND
INSPIRED ALICE ALOSI GOV TO DO
THAT OR YOU CAN CALL US AND WE
CAN HELP YOU WITH THE
APPLICATION.
GOT A COUPLE OF NEW BOOKS THAT
I'M HIGHLIGHTING THAT YOU CAN
FIND ON BAADE.
ONE IS CALLED YOU DON'T HAVE TO
CARRY IT ALL IT'S THE MOM GUILT
AND FIND A BETTER WAY FORWARD
BY PAULA OFFERERS BEING A
WORKING MOM SHOULD WORK INSTEAD
IT IS A THANKLESS, INCREDIBLY
DIFFICULT JOB MARKED BY
IMPOSSIBLE CONTRADICTIONS AND
UNREACHABLE EXPECTATIONS.
AMERICAN MOMS ARE MORE BURNED
OUT NOW THAN AT ANY OTHER TIME
IN HISTORY.
WE BELIEVED WE COULD HAVE IT
ALL FULFILLING WORK AND A
HEALTHY AND HAPPY FAMILY.
WE PICK UP RESPONSIBILITIES
WHEREVER WE GO ON THE JOB AT
HOME AND IN OUR COMMUNITIES WE
TRY TO CARRY IT ALL AND WE CAN
BECAUSE MOMS ARE SUPERHEROES
WITH SUPERPOWERS BUT AT SOME
POINT OUR SHOULDERS GROW TIRED
FROM CARRYING AROUND THE
EXPECTATIONS AND THE MENTAL
LOAD TIRED FROM JUGGLING THE
CONSTANT CONFLICT BETWEEN
WORKING AND MOMMY TIRED OF HOW
OUR WORK WHETHER AT THE HOME
OFFICE ISN'T VALUED EQUALLY AND
TIRED OF WORKPLACES THAT TREAT
US LIKE RISKS INSTEAD OF ASSETS
PAULA VARIOUS OFFERS ADEKOYA
CREATION OF HOPE TO ALL WORKING
MOMS THINGS ARE GOING TO GET
BETTER AND FINALLY I REVERSE
GRACE HOW THE CAT SAVED A
LITTLE GIRL AND HER FAMILY BY
ARABELLA CARTER JOHNSON IRIS
GRACE IS A BEAUTIFUL LITTLE
GIRL WHO FROM A VERY YOUNG AGE
BARELY COMMUNICATE, AVOIDED
SOCIAL INTERACTION WITH OTHER
PEOPLE AND RARELY SMILED BOTH
BEFORE HER DIAGNOSIS OF AUTISM
AND AFTER SHE SEEMED TRAPPED IN
HER OWN WORLD UNABLE TO CONNECT
WITH THOSE AROUND HER.
ONE DAY HER MOTHER BROUGHT HOME
A MAINE KITTEN FOR IRIS.
FULA IMMEDIATELY BONDED WITH
IRIS, KNOWING RIGHT AWAY HOW TO
ASSUAGE IRIS WHEN SHE BECAME
OVERSTIMULATED WHEN TO
INTERVENE WHEN IRIS BECAME
OVERWHELMED AND HOW TO PROVIDE
DISTRACTION WHEN IRIS STARTED
HOLDING HEADING TOWARDS A
MELTDOWN WITH THEWLIS
COMPANIONSHIP IRIS BEGAN TO
TALK AND INTERACT WITH HER
FAMILY INSPIRING AND TOUCHING
IRIS GRACE FOLLOWS THE
STRUGGLES AND TRIUMPHS OF A
FAMILY AND MIRACLE CAT AS THEY
LEARN TO CONNECT WITH AN
AMAZING CHILD.
>> AND THAT IS ALL I HAVE FOR
YOU FOLKS TODAY.
>> DOES ANYBODY HAVE ANY
COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS FOR ME?
I DON'T HAVE ANYTHING AT THIS
TIME.
ANYBODY ELSE?
OK, WELL IT'S GOOD TO SEE AS
USUAL AND YOU HAVE AN EXCELLENT
DAY AND SEE LATER.
>> AWESOME.
THANK YOU KATIE AND THANK YOU
TO EVERYONE AT THE ANN ARBOR
LIBRARY FOR ALL THE WORK THAT
THEY DO.
APPRECIATE IT.
ALL RIGHT.
UP NEXT, WE HAVE THE DISABILITY
NETWORK WASHTENAW AND RON
LIVINGSTON REPORT WITH ANDREA.
THIS IS ALEX EVERYBODY.
HI ANDREA.
IS NOT JOINING WITH US TODAY
BUT HOPEFULLY SHE'LL BE JOINING
WITH US AGAIN NEXT NEXT MONTH.
KENNEDY, IF YOU COULD PLEASE
DOUBLE CHECK THAT SHE'S
RECEIVING THE MEDIA UPDATES AND
THINGS I WOULD APPRECIATE IT.
I'M NOT SURE THAT SHE IS.
THEY JUST DIDN'T WANT TO SPRING
THIS ON HER TODAY.
SO I THOUGHT I WOULD COVER SOME
OF OUR UPDATES FOR SURE.
THANK YOU, ALEX.
YEAH, NO PROBLEM.
A COUPLE OF THINGS I DID WANT
TO MAKE SURE I HIGHLIGHTED WE
HAVE COMING UP RIGHT NOW WE'RE
HAVING WE'RE DOING A CALL FOR
ARTISTS FOR A HOLIDAY POP UP
ART MARKET.
THE MARKET WOULD BE SATURDAY,
DECEMBER 9TH FROM TWELVE TO
FIVE AT OUR OFFICE THREE NINE
FOUR ONE RESEARCH PARK DRIVE IN
ANN ARBOR.
BASICALLY IT'S AS I SAID, IT'S
IT'S AN ARTIST'S MARKET.
SO WE'RE HOPING TO GATHER
DISABLED ARTISTS FROM AROUND
THE AREA WHO ARE LOOKING TO
MAYBE SELL SOME THINGS THAT
THEY'VE BEEN WORKING ON PRIOR
TO THE HOLIDAY SEASON AS WELL
AS GATHERING FOLKS WHO ARE
LOOKING FOR SUCH THINGS.
IF ANYBODY IS INTERESTED THEY
CAN REACH OUT TO CLAIRE FOR
MORE INFORMATION AND QUESTIONS.
RSVP, ET CETERA.
CLAIRE'S EMAIL ADDRESS IS S.L A
I R E THE W MELLBERG.
SO AGAIN THAT'S ONE OF THE MAIN
THINGS WE HAVE COMING UP.
WE ARE CONTINUING WITH A LOT
OF OUR CLASSES AND OTHER
ACTIVITIES THROUGH THE END
OF THE CALENDAR YEAR HERE.
SO DELIVERABILITY OR COOKING
CLASS IS ON HIATUS RIGHT NOW
UNTIL JANUARY.
OUR PROGRAMING IS CONTINUING
AFTER THE THANKSGIVING HOLIDAY.
SO FOR THE MONTH OF DECEMBER
THERE WILL BE CLASSES GOING ON
THEN ART CLASSES TYPICALLY TAKE
PLACE ON MONDAYS FROM ONE
THIRTY TO THREE THIRTY AT THE
INTERIOR OFFICE.
THERE'S ALSO TIME FOR OPEN
STUDIO ON WEDNESDAYS FROM TEN
TO TWELVE AND THERE'S ONLINE
OPEN STUDIO ON THURSDAYS FROM
ONE THIRTY TO THREE.
SO THAT IS CONTINUING
.
LOOKS LIKE WE ARE ONE OTHER
PLACE I DID WANT TO MENTION FOR
EVERYBODY THAT MIGHT BE
OF INTEREST TO FOLKS THERE IS A
PROGRAM THAT VARIOUS CENTERS
FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING HAVE
HELPED TO RUN OVER THE YEARS.
IT'S CALLED PASS REP.
IT'S PERSONAL ASSISTANT
SERVICES REIMBURSEMENT
EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM.
IT'S A PROGRAM THAT IS
AVAILABLE TO ELIGIBLE
INDIVIDUALS WITH SIGNIFICANT
DISABILITIES WHO ARE EMPLOYED
AND ARE RECEIVING AT LEAST
TWENTY FOUR HOURS OF WORK A
WEEK.
THESE INDIVIDUALS, IF THEY ARE
ELIGIBLE, COULD POTENTIALLY
RECEIVE UP TO A THOUSAND
DOLLARS PER MONTH IN
REIMBURSEMENT AFTER THEY HAVE
PAID OUT THEIR PERSONAL CARE
ASSISTANCE IF INDIVIDUALS ARE
INTERESTED IN LEARNING MORE
ABOUT THIS PROGRAM, I'D BE
HAPPY TO SEND ALONG INFORMATION
AFTER THE MEETING TODAY BUT
THEY CAN GO TO DISABILITY
NETWORK MID-MICHIGAN WEBSITE
WHICH IS W-W W D AN M M DOUG.
SO AGAIN FOR FOLKS WHO ARE
LOOKING POSSIBLY FOR RESOURCES
TO HELP THEM PAY FOR PERSONAL
CARE ASSISTANCE, THIS IS A
GREAT PROGRAM.
THEY ARE FINALLY AFTER SOME
TIME ABLE TO TAKE SOME NEW
PARTICIPANTS ON BOARD AND WE
WOULD LOVE TO SEE THAT PROGRAM
NOT ONLY FULL BUT ALSO LOOKING
FOR LOOKING FOR THERE TO BE
MORE PEOPLE WHO ARE ON A
WAITING LIST SO THAT WE CAN
CONTINUE TO PUSH AND ADVOCATE
FOR MORE FUNDING FOR THIS AND
OTHER PROGRAMS THAT ARE PAYING
FOR PROVIDING CARE ASSISTANCE
SERVICES.
AND I THINK THAT IS WHAT I WILL
SHARE OUT WITH TODAY.
AS ALWAYS THOUGH, FOLKS ARE
WELCOME TO GIVE US A CALL FOR
QUESTIONS SEVEN THREE FOUR NINE
SEVEN ONE ZERO TWO SEVEN SEVEN
THEY CAN ALSO VISIT OUR WEBSITE
AND INCLUDING OUR CALENDAR AT
W-W WDM W MELLBERG THAT'S WHAT
I'VE GOT FOR TODAY.
>> THANK YOU ALEX.
I REALLY APPRECIATE THE
INFORMATION ABOUT THE PASSPORT
PROGRAM TOO.
THAT'S PRETTY PRETTY AWESOME
AND I'LL DEFINITELY FOLLOW UP
WITH YOU ON ON SOME OF THOSE
THINGS FOR SURE.
REALLY REALLY APPRECIATE
EVERYTHING THAT YOU'RE DOING
AND YEAH I WILL MAKE SURE THAT
WE GET ANDREA ADDED SO THAT
THAT SHE'S INFORMED AND STUFF
TOO SO THANK YOU FOR THAT
REMINDER.
ABSOLUTELY.
AND THANK YOU TO DISABILITY
NETWORK WASHTENAW MONROE
LIVINGSTON FOR ALL THE ALL THE
GREAT THINGS THAT YOU GUYS DO
FOR EVERYONE WATCHING IF YOU
GUYS ARE AN ARTIST YOU KNOW AND
WANT TO BE ABLE TO PARTICIPATE
IN THAT THAT ART ART SHOW
PLEASE FEEL FREE.
THANK YOU.
NEXT I WANT TO MOVE ON TO PIA.
I KNOW THAT DO WE KNOW DID THE
PEOPLE AND ACCESS COMMITTEE DID
THEY MEET LAST WE DID NOT I I
DIDN'T I DIDN'T HEAR FROM WAITS
UNTIL LATER BUT I THOUGHT I SAW
SOMETHING ABOUT SOMETHING FROM
YOU BUT I'M NOT REALLY SURE BUT
I HAD A MEDICAL THING GO ON AND
NOBODY HAD NOBODY BROUGHT ANY
CONCERNS TO MY ATTENTION AT
THAT POINT.
OK OK SO WE WILL HAVE IT NEXT
MONTH OK.
UNDERSTOOD THANK YOU.
THEN WE CAN MOVE ON TO
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT WITH
RACHEL HAWKINS' RACHEL IZAK SO
IT'S GOING TO START HAWKINS
HERE JUST HAVE AN UPDATE FROM
ANN ARBOR INCLUSIVE THEY SAID
THEY ARE OFFICIALLY BACK SO
THAT IS QUITE EXCITING.
THEY HAD THEIR LAST EPISODE.
THEY HAD FILMED IS ACTUALLY
WITH OUR OWN ALEX GOSSAGE
TALKING ABOUT THE DISABILITY
NETWORK AND THAT'S NOW
CURRENTLY ON YOUTUBE FOR THE
PAST ABOUT PAST WEEK.
SO THEY'RE ALSO WORKING ON A
PARTNERSHIP TO SEE IF THEY CAN
RETURN TO MONTHLY RECORDINGS IN
THE BEGINNING OF JANUARY.
SO THEY HOPE IF THAT WORKS OUT
THAT THEY'LL BE ABLE TO HAVE GO
BACK TO HAVING MONTHLY MONTHLY
VIDEOS.
OH, WONDERFUL WORK AND ALEX, I
HAVE NO DOUBT THAT YOU YOU HELD
THE DOWN IN THE STUDIO AND I
LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING THAT
EPISODE.
ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU, RACHEL AND THANK YOU
TO EVERYONE IN OUR VERY
INCLUSIVE TIME.
HOLLEYMAN DEVINS C10 AND I WERE
DOING A GREAT JOB AT THAT SHOW.
ABSOLUTELY.
SO THANK YOU ALL.
>> ALL RIGHT.
NEXT WE HAVE THE TRANSPORTATION
MISSION UPDATE WITH LARRY
KEILLER.
>> OK, USUALLY RECRUITING ONE
HOST.
YEAH, SORRY I MESSED UP.
IT'S IT'S RECRUITMENT FIRST MY
APOLOGIES.
>> OK I CAN DO THE BOTH OK SO
LET'S GO.
>> THANK YOU FOR RECRUITING.
WE'RE DOING GOOD.
WE HAVE ONE SPOT AND WE HAVE AN
INTERVIEW COMING UP LATER THIS
MONTH TO POSSIBLY SEND A
ANOTHER CANDIDATE TO THE
COMMISSION IN DECEMBER.
I'M I'M GUESSING IF THIS
INTERVIEW GOES RIGHT AND I
THINK THAT'S IT WE I I THINK
THERE'S ANOTHER GUY THAT'S
STILL INTERESTED BUT HE'S
APPARENTLY LOST HIS APPLICATION
.
SO WHAT I THAT'S GOING TO WORK
SO SO FAR WE'RE WORKING GOOD
AND LOOKS LIKE IT COULD
POSSIBLY BE A FULL COMMISSION
NEXT YEAR POSSIBLY AND THAT'S
IT FOR THAT.
OK, THANK YOU.
AND IN THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION UPDATE PLEASE.
ALL RIGHT.
WE MET AFTER THE LAST MEETING
ON THE 18TH OF OCTOBER AND THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION OVER
THEY THEY WERE BASICALLY
WORKING ON GETTING THE
RESOLUTION SET UP FOR THE LANE
REDUCE LANE REDUCING AREAS IN
ANN ARBOR AND THEY WERE WORKING
ON AND THEY WERE WORKING ON
BROADENING IT.
>> SO IT'S THE THEY WERE
WORKING ON BROADENING THE
DEFINITION AND BROADENING WHAT
THEY DO AND WE WERE THERE
OF COURSE THERE IS MORE ON ROAD
TO MUCH DISCUSSION BUT THAT THE
RESOLUTION PASSED AND THERE WAS
A PRESENTATION FROM PSC WHICH I
FORGET WHAT IT IS BUT I'VE GOT
IT IT WAS FROM DETROIT FROM THE
DETROIT AREA AND IT WAS PEOPLE
IT WAS PEOPLE GAVE AN
INTERESTING COGNITIVE AND
COGNITIVE DISORDERS THAT GAVE
AN INTERESTING PRESENTATION ON
TRANSPORTATION AND HOW
DIFFICULT OR EASY IT IS TO TAKE
TRANSPORTATION, HOW THE DIDN'T
HAVE A LOT TO DO WITH THAT
ALBUM.
BUT I SAW THE I FOUND IT
INTERESTING THAT THEY WERE
GETTING PEOPLE WITH COGNITIVE
DISABILITIES TO TO BE ABLE TO
HAVE A VOICE AND AND YOU KNOW,
THE TRANSPORTATION ISSUES AND
THEN AND A LOT OF THE A LOT
OF THE OTHER WORK WAS FOR THE
END OF THE YEAR RESOLUTIONS
THAT WERE PUT BACK IN AND TO
COME BACK IN THE SPRING FOR YOU
KNOW, A LOT OF ROAD
CONSTRUCTION AND THERE WAS A
AND IT'S TRY TO MAKE TWENTY
THREE SAFE PASS AND WHAT THEY
WANT TO DO IS TRY TO DECREASE A
COUPLE OF TWO LINES COMING
THROUGH TOWN AND THAT PASSED OR
YOU KNOW COMING WHERE IT COMES
THROUGH ON THE BETWEEN THE
HARBOR AND IT'S FILANI THAT
THEY WANTED TO CUT IT THEY WANT
TO CUT IT DOWN TO TWO LANES AND
THEY WERE ALSO THERE'S ALSO
STILL MORE DISCUSSION GOING ON
PUTTING SENSORS NEAR THE TRAIN
TRACKS AND THEN I FINALLY
BROUGHT UP OUR CONCERNS ABOUT,
YOU KNOW, OUR CONCERNS ABOUT
THE BIKE LANES AND THE SIDEWALK
ISSUES THAT WE HAD.
I BROUGHT UP THE I BROUGHT UP
THOSE CONCERNS AND THEN THE
OTHER THING I HAVE A ATAY IS
TRYING TO SET OUR RIGHT TO
INTRODUCE SOME OF THEIR GREEN
BUSSES AND SHOW THEM OFF.
AND I ALSO WANT TO SAY BECAUSE
THE JUST FOR THE REPORT I THINK
I'VE HEARD THE REPORT BEFORE
ABOUT CURB COULD USAGE AND I
BELIEVE I COMMENTED THEN BUT I
WILL KEEP COMMENTING IF YOU'RE
PRESENTING TONIGHT COMMENT
AGAIN ABOUT SOME OF OUR
CONCERNS ABOUT PARKING SPACES
AND THE ABOUT FINDING PARKING
SPACES.
PEOPLE, DISABILITIES AND ALSO I
WANT TO LOOK AT BIKE LANES THAT
ARE GOING TO LOOK AT I'M GOING
TO TALK I'LL TALK ABOUT WHERE
WHERE THEY'RE TAKING OUT CURBS
AND SOME PLACES.
THE OTHER ISSUE I HAVE IS
THEY'RE TAKING OUT CURBS AND
IT'S MORE IT WILL BECOME MORE
DIFFICULT FOR VISUALLY IMPAIRED
PEOPLE ESPECIALLY TO FIND OUT
HAVE WE WANDERED IN WITH THE
STREET OR ON THE SIDEWALK AND
THAT'S SEEMS TO BE A TREND
OF TAKING OUT THE CURBS
DOWNTOWN, ESPECIALLY AMONG
STATE STREET.
SO THAT'S IT FOR MY REPORT.
THANK YOU, LARRY.
DO APPRECIATE IT.
ABSOLUTELY.
AND YEAH, IF YOU FIND OUT FROM
DED, PLEASE KEEP US INFORMED.
>> OK, I WILL I WILL KEEP
BUGGING THEM AND I'LL MAKE SURE
THAT THEY
THEY KEEP THE DENHA
AND PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES IN
MIND WHEN YOU'RE DOING APSA.
ABSOLUTELY THAT'S THAT'S
PARAMOUNT FOR ME.
YOU KNOW.
>> ALL RIGHT.
NEXT WE HAVE THE EUROPEAN
COUNCIL FOR DISABILITY CONCERNS
MEETING UPDATE WITH
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON MATTHEW,
THE FLOOR IS YOURS SO THANK
YOU.
THE COUNCIL MET YESTERDAY AND
MOST OF THE PRESENTATION WAS
TAKEN UP BY A PRESENTATION FROM
THE NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM.
BEFORE I TALK A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT THAT, THE NEW BACKOR
AWARD WAS CELEBRATED THAT WENT
TO PAM MCGINTY WHO'S THE CHAIR
OF THAT OF THAT COUNCIL AND HAS
BEEN A LONG TIME ADVOCATE FOR
THE COMMUNITY CELEBRATING THAT
ACHIEVEMENT.
SO THE PRESENTERS WERE BRITTANY
BURGESS AND TODD BERENDS.
THEY TALKED ABOUT HOW THE UM,
MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY HAS
MOVED FROM THE FORMER SITE IN
THE ROOF AND BUILDING TO THE
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES BUILDING.
THE EXHIBITS HAVE CHANGED
ALTHOUGH THEY ASSURED US THAT
THE MASTODON SKELETON REMAINS
THE PARTS OF THE DISCUSSION
THAT WERE MOST RELEVANT TO US
CONCERNED ACCESSIBLE PARKING AT
THE PALMER PARKING STRUCTURE
ACCESSIBLE DROP OFF BUS STATION
LOCATIONS OR BUS STOP LOCATIONS
THAT ARE NEARBY THE MUSEUM.
THEY SEEM TO HAVE HAD A VERY
KEEN EYE ON ACCESSIBILITY IN
THIS NEW SITE THERE ARE
WHEELCHAIRS AVAILABLE FOR
CHECKOUT.
THERE ARE PORTABLE TOOLS
AVAILABLE FOR CHECKOUT ALTHOUGH
SOME CONCERNS WERE EXPRESSED
ABOUT WHETHER THE SCHOOLS WOULD
IN FACT BE USABLE BY ALL
MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY.
THAT SEEMED LIKE SOMETHING I
PERSONALLY HAVE NOT SEEN OR WAS
AWARE OF PREVIOUSLY.
THEY HIGHLIGHTED THEIR PLEASE
TOUCH EXHIBITS WHICH FOR THEM
WAS AT LEAST PARTLY A NOD TO
OTHER WAYS TO EXPERIENCE AND
EXHIBIT.
THEY TALKED ABOUT A VIRTUAL
EXHIBITION THEY HAVE ONLINE
ABOUT WHALE EVOLUTION WHICH YOU
CAN FIND ONLINE ACCESSIBLE AND
SEATING AT THE PLANETARIUM IS
NOW AVAILABLE AND AUTOMATIC
DOOR OPENERS FOR ALL GALLERIES
SO THAT IS THE RUN DOWN FROM
THE NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM.
I MYSELF AM TEMPTED TO MAKE A
VISIT IN THE UPCOMING MONTHS
BASED WE SHOULD WE SHOULD ALL
TAKE A FIELD TRIP THERE.
>> PARDON ME FOR THE
INTERRUPTION.
>> I THINK THE COMMISSION
SHOULD TAKE A FIELD TRIP.
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
I WOULD WELCOME THAT AGAIN THEY
HAD A VERY THEY WERE VERY
ATTENTIVE TO ACCESSIBILITY.
IT WAS CENTERED IN THEIR
RENOVATION AND IT KIND
OF POINTED OUT SOME THINGS THAT
WE CAN ALL DO BETTER IN TERMS
OF FACILITIES AND IT WAS
EXCITING TO SEE A GROUP THAT
WAS TOTALLY DIALED IN TO THE
CONCERNS OF THE COMMUNITY AND
HAD TAKEN EVERY ONE OF THEM
SERIOUSLY.
SO IT WAS A PRETTY COMPELLING
PRESENTATION ON THAT ON THAT
BASIS OUTSTANDING.
>> IT SOUNDS LIKE A SOLEMN
EXCUSE ME I DIDN'T MEAN TO
INTERRUPT BUT MY HEAD DOESN'T
WASTE SO GOOD ON THIS TOO.
TWO QUESTIONS ONE REAL
QUESTION, THE OTHER JUST A KIND
OF A COMMENT QUESTION IS WHERE
IS THE BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
BUILDING?
>> I'M NOT I'M NOT YOU HAVEN'T
GOT ANY OF THEM.
GOD KNOWS THIS THING.
YOU KNOW, I BELIEVE IT'S ABOUT
YOU HAVE GUY I COULD GET TO IT.
I COULDN'T TELL YOU WHAT THE
ADDRESSES WE CAN PUT THAT IN
THE NUMBERS.
I'M SURE IT'LL BE EASY TO LOOK
UP.
>> IT'S ON CENTRAL CAMPUS.
I WANT TO SAY IT'S ON
UNIVERSITY AVENUE BUT I WOULD
PREFER TO BE PRECISE IN MY I
DON'T WANT TO MISGUIDE YOU ONE
THING TO YOU OUT OF ONE THING
TO BE AWARE OF .
THERE'S A CALL BOX AT THE
ENTRANCE OF THE BUILDING SO
THEY REALLY CALLED OUT IF YOU
HAVE ANY ISSUES GO TO THE CALL
BOX.
SOMEONE WILL BE ON STAFF TO
HELP.
SO IF YOU HAVE ANY ISSUES WHEN
YOU GET TO THE BUILDING WITH
THAT CALL BOX OUTSIDE, THEY
ASSURED US THAT IT'S THAT
GENERALLY WHENEVER THE MUSEUM
IS OPEN SO AS SOON AS WE GET
THAT ADDRESS I'D SUGGEST THAT
THOSE WHO WANT TO MAKE USE
OF THAT CALL BOX I THINK
THEY'RE THERE TO TRY AND SERVE
.
I THINK I WAS THERE SOMETHING
LIKE TWENTY OR TWENTY FIVE
YEARS AGO WHEN I WAS TAKING A
CLASS AND TAKING A BIOLOGY
CLASS AT WCC.
I BELIEVE AND WE WENT UP THERE
AND I WAS IMPRESSED THAT THEY
ACTUALLY LET ME LOOK AT IT
ARCHAEOPTERYX FOSSIL THEY LET
ME FEEL IT AND THEY LET ME SEE
THAT THEY HAD A BIG DYNAMIC UP
THERE BUT THEY LET ME SEE IF
CLAW TOO AND I WAS VERY
IMPRESSED THAT I COULD GET THAT
CLOSE AND I COULD LOOK AT THE
ELEAZAR TI ON THE SKELETON.
>> SO WAS IF THEY'VE IMPROVED
ON THAT I REALLY LIKE TO GO UP
THERE AGAIN.
>> SO ONE THING THEY ALSO
MENTIONED IS THAT THEY HAVE
WORKING SCIENTISTS THAT ARE
WORKING IN THAT FACILITY SO
THERE'S ACTUALLY A WAY WHERE
YOU CAN ACTUALLY INTERACT WITH
THE SCIENTISTS NOT YEAH.
SO IT'S AGAIN IT SEEMS LIKE
AHEAD OF ITS TIME IN TERMS
OF ACCESSIBILITY AND
INTERFACING WITH A BROAD
SEGMENT OF THE PUBLIC WHAT THEY
DID THEY DID WARN US THAT THE
MUSEUM WAS A LITTLE BIT OF AN
AFTERTHOUGHT, THAT KIND GOT
SHOEHORNED INTO AN EXISTING
BUILDING.
SO IT'S NOT THE EASIEST TO
NAVIGATE BUT THEY DEFINITELY
ARE EXTENDING A WELCOMING HAND
TO ANY RESOURCES THAT ARE
NEEDED TO OUR COMMUNITY IN
PARTICULAR.
>> OH NO.
I LOVE INTERACTING WITH THE
SCIENTISTS.
I'M SORT OF A BIOLOGICAL GUY.
>> SO I WAS I'M EXCITED TO
CHECK OUT THE NEW SEATS IN THE
PLANETARIUM FOLKS I DON'T KNOW
ABOUT YOU GUYS.
>> ALL I COULD DO WITHOUT THAT
I USED TO LOVE THE PLANETARIUM
AND I COULD SEE IT.
HE'S GOING TO END UP IN AT
MICHIGAN STATE.
I LOVED IT UP THERE.
THAT'S NICE.
WELL, YEAH.
LARRY, DON'T YOU KNOW WILL I
BELIEVE THERE'LL BE SOMETHING
WONDERFUL FOR EVERYBODY.
ABSOLUTELY.
WELL, THANK YOU SO MUCH AT THE
I APPRECIATE IT AND THANK YOU.
AND BY THE WAY, I JUST WANTED
TO MENTION CONGRATULATIONS TO
PAM BY THE WAY ON THE AWARD AND
I DID WANT TO POINT OUT TO THE
COMMISSION, YOU KNOW, I HAD
REACHED OUT TO PAM A WHILE BACK
BECAUSE GUYS WE COULD HAVE BEEN
ON THAT COMMITTEE JUST SO YOU
KNOW AND I DID PUT AN
INVITATION OUT A WHILE BACK FOR
US TO BE ON THAT COMMITTEE
BECAUSE YOU KNOW, THEY REALLY
THOUGHT ONE OF US FROM THE
COMMISSION WOULD REALLY BENEFIT
FROM FROM BEING A PART OF THAT
AND GOING THROUGH THAT REVIEW
PROCESS.
NOW THE GOOD THING ABOUT THIS
YOU GUYS IS THAT THERE'S A NEW
YEAR COMING UP WHICH MEANS
IT'LL BE A NEW NOMINEE THIS
COMING YEAR.
AND FROM WHAT I HAD HEARD, YOU
KNOW, THEY'RE STILL INTERESTED
IN US BEING A PART OF THAT.
SO I HOPE THAT WE AS A
COMMISSION CAN TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF THAT WITH YOU AND BUILD THAT
RELATIONSHIP AND EXCUSE ME IF
ANY OF US CAN FIND THE TIME TO
BE ON THE NEW BUCKER AWARDS
COMMITTEE, I GOT TO BE
SOMETHING VERY FRUITFUL FOR US
ONE TO TWO TO TO BE A PART
OF AND IF ANYONE IS INTERESTED
LET ME KNOW AND LUPINE
COMMISSIONER SALOMON
ABSOLUTELY.
AND YOU KNOW AND THEN I CAN
HELP COMMUNICATE THAT AS WELL
SO THAT YOU HAVE THEM COUNSEL
FOR DISABILITY CONCERNS CAN CAN
KNOW THAT WE'RE INTERESTED.
>> THANKS FOR MENTIONING THAT
AGAIN.
I'LL DEFINITELY KEEPING IN MIND
I MEAN THE ONE THING I CAN SAY
IS IT REALLY FEELS LIKE THEY
GOT IT RIGHT THIS YEAR SO YEAH
BUT THANKS FOR BRINGING THAT UP
REMINDING US THAT WE DO HAVE A
SEAT AT THAT TABLE IF WE WOULD
LIKE TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF IT.
>> SURE, SURE.
ABSOLUTELY.
I MEAN I THINK THE BRIDGE
BETWEEN YOU HAVE THEM COUNSEL
FOR DISABILITY CONCERNS I YOU
KNOW SHOULD BE STRONG AND I
APPRECIATE YOU MATTHEW AS WELL
AS KATHLEEN FOR YOUR WORK IN
THE PAST AS WELL IN KEEPING
THAT BRIDGE GOING.
SO HOPEFULLY THAT CAN BE BUILT
IN THE FUTURE.
>> THANK YOU, BILL.
AND JUST A REMINDER THAT THOSE
MEETINGS ARE TOTALLY OPEN TO
THE PUBLIC.
THEY'RE TOTALLY ONLINE.
IT'S ONE HOUR A MONTH JUST IN
CASE OF COURSE YOU'LL GET THESE
REPORTS.
BUT IN CASE YOU'RE INTERESTED,
VERY EASY TO ACCESS THOSE
MEETINGS IF YOU SHOULD BE
INTERESTED.
AWESOME.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
I'M NEXT I WANTED TO SEE IF
LAURA ORTA WAS ON FOR THE
ORGANIZATIONAL EQUITY REPORT AS
OUR DIRECTOR OF ORGANIZATIONAL
EQUITY AND WITH US AT THIS TIME
HE IS
NOT SO TRACEY WILL BE
DOING THE POWERPOINT AND TRACEY
YEAH.
>> TRACEY TAKE IT AWAY.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, ZACH COMMISSION.
THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME HERE
THIS EVENING.
JUST KIND OF WANTED TO GIVE YOU
A RUNDOWN.
I HAVE MY NOTES RIGHT HERE.
I HAVE NOW BEEN AT THE CITY FOR
A LITTLE OVER A MONTH.
SO WHAT I'VE BEEN DOING SOME
OF THE THINGS I'VE BEEN DOING
THIS LAST MONTH IS I STARTED
DOING A TOUR OF THE FACILITIES
AND PARKS AS PART OF THE
TRANSITIONAL PLAN JUST KIND
OF SEEING THE THE DEPTH AND THE
SCOPE OF THE WORK THAT NEEDS TO
BE DONE TO GET THEM COMPLIANT
OR ACCESSIBLE.
YOU KNOW, YOU YOU YOU HAVE THE
NAIL ON THE HEAD WHEN YOU'VE
STATED I FORGET WHICH
COMMISSIONER I APOLOGIZE AND
STATED THAT WE WANT MORE THAN
JUST BEING COMPLIANT.
WE WANT TO BE INCLUSIVE FOR
EVERY SINGLE PERSON IN THE
COMMUNITY.
SO BUT I'VE ALSO BEEN REACHING
OUT TO MANY ORGANIZATIONS.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE
AND YOUR STAFF FOR MEETING WITH
ME A DISABILITY AT WORK AND
I'VE BEEN IN CONTACT AND
WORKING WITH WASC AND AND THE
DENHA OF NEUTRAL ZONE AS WELL
AS THE WASHTENAW ASSOCIATION
FOR COMMUNITY ADVOCACY AND I'VE
I'VE BEEN ALSO ATTENDING I
ATTENDED THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION AND TRYING TO FILL
MILITARIZE MYSELF WITH OTHER
COMMISSIONS LIKE ALSO THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
I LISTEN TO THEIR MEETING THAT
TOOK PLACE ON THE 18TH AND
LARRY AND ANOTHER COMMISSIONERS
IT WAS PEAK PEAK STANDS FOR A
PROGRAM TO EDUCATE ALL CYCLISTS
AND THEY DO ACTUALLY HAVE AN
OFFICE IN YPSILANTI.
I'M VERY FAMILIAR WITH THEIR
PROGRAM AND HAVE WORKED WITH
MR. WATERMAN AND A LOT OF HIS
STUDENTS OVER THE YEARS THAT HE
TEACHES PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES HOW TO RIDE
BICYCLES AND BICYCLE AND
PEDESTRIAN SAFETY IN WHICH I
ACTUALLY REACHED OUT TO HIM
JUST A COUPLE OF DAYS AGO AS
WELL.
AGAIN WANTING TO HAVE CREATE A
LOT OF MEANINGFUL NOT JUST
NETWORKING BUT MEANINGFUL
CONNECTIONS WITH PEOPLE.
SO ALL VOICES ARE BROUGHT TO
THE TABLE WHEN THINGS LIKE
PARKING PLACE OR PARKING SPOTS
ARE DEVELOPED OR MORE BIKE
LANES SO WE CAN SO WE CAN BRING
IT TO THE COMMISSION.
SO YOU GUYS HAVE A SEAT AT THAT
TABLE.
SO THAT'S ALL I HAVE FROM THE
SIDE.
SO THANK YOU.
IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS LET
ME KNOW.
THANK YOU TRACY.
DEFINITELY APPRECIATE ALL YOUR
EFFORTS AND ALL OF YOUR WORK.
VERY FAMILIAR WITH THE
WASHINGTON ASSOCIATION FOR
COMMUNITY ADVOCACY, THE WORK
KATHY HOHMANN AND ALL OF THE
INDIVIDUALS THERE ARE DOING
OUTSTANDING AND SO HOPEFULLY
THAT WAS A POSITIVE EXPERIENCE
FOR YOU AND THANK YOU ALSO FOR
THE WORK THAT YOU DID WITH THE
PARKS.
YOU KNOW, THE COMMISSION HAS
DONE SOME COMMUNICATIONS WITH
PARKS AND REC IN THE PAST TO
ENSURE THAT THE ARCHITECTS THAT
ARE TO UPDATE THESE PARKS DO SO
IN AN EFFECTIVE MANNER.
AND AGAIN IT IS NOT THEY ARE
NOT JUST COMPLIANT BUT THEY ARE
INDEED ACCESSIBLE AND EQUITABLE
FOR ALL THAT USE THE PUBLIC
PARKS.
SO DO APPRECIATE THAT EFFORT AS
WELL.
I KNOW WE HAVE A HAND UP
COMMISSIONER CHAMBERS, YOU HAD
A COMMENT I JUST A QUICK
QUESTION.
>> FIRST OF ALL, THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR THAT INFORMATION AND
FOR BEING HERE.
THE ORGANIZATION THAT YOU
MENTIONED FOR WITH SPECIFICALLY
WITH TEACHING PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES TO RIDE BICYCLES I
WAS JUST WONDERING FOR MY OWN
INFORMATION IS THAT CHILDREN
AND ADULTS AND IS IT BOTH
PHYSICAL AND COGNITIVE
DISABILITIES?
YES.
THE QUESTIONS IF YOU JUST
GOOGLE EKH D.E.A CASEY OR JOHN
WATERMAN YOU CAN FIND THEIR
INFORMATION.
>> I MIGHT ACTUALLY HAVE IT UP
.
NO, I DO NOT.
I TOOK IT OFF BUT YEAH, IF YOU
JUST GOOGLE PEAK AND WASHTENAW
COUNTY THEY DID START IN WAYNE
COUNTY AND I ACTUALLY MET JOHN
I THINK ABOUT TEN YEARS AGO
WHENEVER I WAS THE MOBILITY
SERVICE COORDINATOR AT THE RIDE
ACTUALLY THAT WAS ONE OF MY
VERY FIRST ONE OF MY FAVORITES
OUTREACHES.
I ACTUALLY RODE THE BUSSES WITH
HIM AND HIS STUDENTS SO HE
TEACHES TRAVEL TRAINING AS
WELL.
SO ON PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION,
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
YOU'RE VERY WELCOME.
AND AND I WANT TO GO BACK TO
ZACH.
I KNOW THAT OR EXCUSE CHAIR
THAT I I KNOW THAT YOU ALL WERE
VERY INSTRUMENTAL IN THE
PLANNING WITH THE THE
CONTRACTOR THE CONSULTANT FOR
THE PARKS.
I DO NOT WANT YOUR AS THE
COMMISSION I DO NOT WANT IT TO
END HERE.
I WILL BE LOOKING FOR TOWARDS
YOU AND TO YOU FOR GUIDANCE AS
WE START THIS PROCESS.
SO I I WANT US TO CONTINUE TO
WORK TOGETHER ON THIS.
>> YES.
YES.
AND MAY I EMPHASIZE THE FULL
COMMISSION ON THAT AS WELL?
YOU I REALLY LIKE OUR THE FULL
COMMISSION TO HAVE INPUT ON
THIS AS WELL AND YOU KNOW,
WE'RE ALL INTELLIGENT MINDS AND
WE'RE ALL INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE
IMPACTED BY THIS.
SO ABSOLUTELY.
AND YOU KNOW, COMMISSIONERS YOU
I WELCOME YOUR INPUT.
YOU KNOW, ONCE TRACY COMES
COMES IN THAT PROCESS AND AND
HOPEFULLY WE CAN ALL BE IN THAT
TOGETHER.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, TRACY.
>> I DO APPRECIATE IT.
PLEASE GIVE OUR BEST TO LAURA
BY THE WAY, I WILL.
THANK YOU.
AND I WILL BE ATTENDING IN
PLACE OF LAURA THE COMMISSION
MEETINGS.
I'M SURE THAT THEY WILL BE
ATTENDING SOME BUT IT WILL BE
IT'S ON MY AGENDA TO TO BE AT
YOUR MONTHLY MEETINGS.
OK, SO TO CLARIFY YOU'LL BE
ATTENDING REGULARLY ON LAURA'S
BEHALF OR SHE WILL ALSO BE
ATTENDING ON HER BEHALF.
OK, SO I WILL BE I WILL BE THE
PERSON FROM THE DEPARTMENT
OF ORGANIZATIONAL EQUITY GROUPS
ATTENDING.
>> SURE.
BUT I WILL MAKE SURE TO STILL
BE IN CONTACT WITH HER
REGULARLY TO MAKE SURE THAT
ABSOLUTELY YOU KNOW, IF THERE'S
ANYTHING THAT NEEDS TO BE DONE
,WE ARE INFORMED.
THANK YOU.
YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT WE HAVE THE CITY PERSONNEL
REPORT WITH KENNEDY.
HELLO EVERYONE.
JUST A QUICK REPORT IN KIND
OF A REPORT STILL IN PROGRESS.
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR IS STILL
SEARCHING FOR A POLICE CHIEF
CITY IS FINALIZING THE SEARCH
FOR POLICE CHIEF CANDIDATE SO
THERE WILL BE MORE INFORMATION
AND DETAILS AND UPDATES TO COME
AND THERE ARE NO ADDITIONAL
CITY PERSONNEL REPORT TO UPDATE
THIS TIME.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
AND YOU KNOW, EXCITED TO YEAH.
REALLY HEAR ABOUT THAT PROCESS
AS WELL, FOLKS.
YOU KNOW, IN TERMS OF WHO IS
INDEED SELECTED BY THE WAY, I
BELIEVE THERE'S ALSO GOING TO
BE A PERIOD FOR A MEET AND
GREET WITH THOSE POTENTIAL
CANDIDATES.
SO IF I AM MADE AWARE OF THAT
WHEN THAT IS, I WILL LET ALL
OF YOU KNOW AND I HOPE THAT IF
YOU HAVE THE TIME AT SOME POINT
TO TO COME TO THAT MEET AND
GREET AS SOON AS I GET THAT
INFORMATION AND SEND TO ALL
OF YOU THAT WHOEVER IS
AVAILABLE CAN ALSO ATTEND ON
BEHALF OF THE COMMISSION TO TO
SPEAK WITH THOSE CANDIDATES.
>> THANK YOU, KENNEDY.
>> ALL RIGHT.
NEXT WE HAVE THE CHAIR REPORT.
SO I GUESS THAT'S THAT'S WHERE
I SAY SOME THINGS HERE.
I WILL BE BRIEF BUT I WANTED TO
MENTION ONE OF THE THINGS I
WANTED TO TO MENTION IS THAT WE
DID HAVE A WORKING SESSION
RECENTLY TO TALK ABOUT WEBSITE
ACCESSIBILITY AND TRACY JOINED
US.
THANK YOU SO MUCH TO TRACY BYRD
FOR JOINING US AND FOR YOUR
INPUT.
COMMISSIONER CHAMBERS AS WELL.
AND COMMISSIONER PACKARD, THANK
YOU ALSO FOR JOINING FOR YOUR
INPUT.
AND KENNEDY, THANK YOU SO MUCH
ALSO FOR TAKING RECORD OF WHAT
WAS TALKED ABOUT AT THAT
MEETING IN TERMS
OF SUGGESTIONS, I THINK THERE
WAS A LOT OF GOOD SUGGESTIONS
IN TERMS OF ACCESSIBILITY THAT
STILL CAN BE MADE NOT JUST TO
OUR SECTION OF THE WEBSITE BUT
TO THE CITY WEB PRESENCE AS A
WHOLE.
SO I ENCOURAGE ALL OF YOU IF
YOU DID RECEIVE THAT
INFORMATION FROM KENNEDY,
PLEASE LOOK IT OVER AND THEN IF
THERE ARE ADDITIONS THAT YOU
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE TO THAT IN
TERMS OF OH I REALLY THINK THIS
WOULD BE HELPFUL IN TERMS
OF ORGANIZATION OR IN TERMS
OF ACCESSIBILITY ON OUR WEB
PAGE, PLEASE PLEASE LET US ONE
OF THE OTHER THINGS THAT I HOPE
CAN BE KIND OF DONE IN THE
COMING YEAR IS A KODAI
NEWSLETTER FOR THOSE IN THE
COMMUNITY.
SO OBVIOUSLY WE ARE IN THE
FOREFRONT.
WE'RE WORKING ON THESE THINGS
AND AND WE'RE AWARE BUT BELIEVE
IT OR NOT, THERE HAVE BEEN
COMMUNITY MEMBERS I'M GLAD TO
SAY THAT THAT INQUIRED ABOUT A
KODAI NEWSLETTER IN TERMS
OF THE THINGS THAT WE'RE DOING,
THE THINGS THAT WE'RE WORKING
ON AND AND HOW CAN HOW CAN THEY
STAY INFORMED, YOU KNOW, MORE
OFTEN.
SO I'D SUGGESTED MAYBE A
NEWSLETTER I KNOW THAT OTHER
COMMISSIONS DO THAT.
I JUST YOU KNOW, THINK IT MIGHT
BE A GOOD IDEA.
BUT AGAIN, IF ANY OF YOU HAVE
ADDITIONAL IDEAS ON WHAT WE
COULD DO TO KEEP THE PUBLIC
INFORMED ABOUT THE WORK
OF KODAI, PLEASE LET US KNOW
AND THEN ALSO I HAD EXPRESSED
SOME INTEREST ON THE IMPORTANCE
OF SOCIAL MEDIA.
YOU KNOW, I KNOW THAT YOU KNOW,
IT'S NOT NECESSARILY LIKE YOU
KNOW, SUPER, SUPER, SUPER
PREVALENT IN TERMS OF THE THE
CEREBRAL WORK THAT WE DO.
BUT I THINK HAVING A SOCIAL
MEDIA PRESENCE AS A COMMISSION
CAN ALSO HELP US IN MANY WAYS
IT CAN HELP US WITH
RECRUITMENT.
BUT AGAIN AND IT CAN ALSO HELP
KEEP COMMUNITY THE COMMUNITY
INFORMED AS WE ARE MORE AND
MORE ON OUR PHONES AND LAPTOPS
AND THINGS OF THAT SORT.
I THINK HAVING A KODAI SOCIAL
MEDIA PRESENCE MIGHT BE
HELPFUL.
BUT I ALSO WANTED YOU KNOW, ON
THAT POINT I WANTED TO KIND
OF MENTION THAT MAYBE IT'S IT'S
BENEFICIAL AT OUR NEXT MEETING
IF WE TALK ABOUT CREATING A
SOCIAL MEDIA SUBCOMMITTEE THAT
CAN ASSIST WITH, YOU KNOW,
CREATING THOSE SOCIAL MEDIA
ACCOUNTS AND MAYBE HELPING TO
MAINTAIN THEM, I'M HOPING TO
MAKE CONTACT WITH THE CITY TO
SEE WHAT KIND OF ASSISTANCE WE
CAN GET WITH THAT BECAUSE I
KNOW THAT SOCIAL MEDIA CAN BE
TAXING AND DEFINITELY A CHORE
BUT BUT I'D LOVE TO HEAR ANY
SUGGESTIONS THAT YOU GUYS HAVE
ON THAT AND IF YOU ARE IN
SUPPORT OF CREATING SOME SOCIAL
MEDIA ACCOUNTS SUCH AS
INSTAGRAM, A FACEBOOK PAGE OR A
TWITTER THAT SORT OF THING AND
THEN WE CAN HAVE THOSE LINKS ON
OUR PAGE AS WELL.
SO PEOPLE CAN FOLLOW.
BUT THAT'S WHAT I HAVE THUS FAR
ON THE CHAIR REPORT
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON, I HAVE A
QUESTION.
I JUST WANTED TO JUST REITERATE
THE QUESTION ABOUT WHETHER
THERE ARE OR NOT CITY RESOURCE
SOURCES TO SUPPORT SUCH AN
ENDEAVOR.
IS THERE SOME TYPE OF PRECEDENT
WITH OTHER COMMITTEES?
OBVIOUSLY IT'S A BIG THING FOR
VISIBILITY BUT IT'S ALSO A
QUESTION OF RESOURCE
ALLOCATION.
SO I THINK THAT WOULD BE A
QUESTION I WOULD LOVE TO HEAR
ANSWER TO.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THAT'S A GREAT QUESTION.
I CAN TELL YOU I CAN TELL YOU
RIGHT NOW THAT THAT I'M NOT
SURE MYSELF SO I'M GOING TO
FIND OUT WHAT I'M ACTUALLY
GOING TO DO.
YOU GUYS AS I'M GOING TO REACH
OUT TO THE CITY COMMUNICATIONS
PERSON LISA WANDERA AND I'M
GOING TO SAY, HEY, YOU KNOW,
HOW IS THIS DONE?
YOU KNOW, WITH OTHER
COMMISSIONS CAN YOU ASSIST THIS
OR ARE WE ON OUR OWN FOR THIS?
AND THEN ONCE WE CAN FIND OUT
WHETHER WE GET ASSISTANCE OR IF
WE'RE ON OUR OWN, THEN MAYBE WE
CAN WE CAN, YOU KNOW, GO THE
NEXT STEPS THERE.
SO HOPEFULLY I KNOW THAT
DOESN'T ANSWER YOUR QUESTION
RIGHT AWAY, MATTHEW, BUT I
PROMISE YOU I'M GOING TO
INQUIRE SO SOON AS I DO.
WELL, YOU WILL BE ON THAT
CORRESPONDENCE AND AND
HOPEFULLY WE CAN ALL HAVE
ANSWERS AND MAYBE IT'S RELATED
TO THE ROLE OF TRACEY AND LAURA
OR TO I'M POSSIBLY RIGHT.
>> RIGHT.
YEAH.
I MEAN THAT'S A GOOD POINT AS
WELL.
MAYBE I CAN BRING THAT UP TO TO
TO TO TO TO LAURA TRACEY, I
KNOW YOU'RE STILL ON THE LINE.
>> MAYBE THAT'S SOMETHING THAT
WE CAN ALL WORK TOGETHER ON IN
TERMS PROMOTING YOU KNOW AS A
RESOURCE AND ACCESSIBILITY AND
AND AND HAVE IT BE SOMETHING
THAT IS NOT TAXING BUT RATHER
INFORMATIVE AND AND SOMETHING
THAT'S NEEDED.
SO I CAN DEFINITELY TALK MORE
ABOUT THAT AS WELL.
THANK YOU, MATTHEW.
>> ALL RIGHT.
NEXT WE HAVE THE CITY COUNCIL
UPDATE BUT COUNCIL MEMBER GAZY
EDWYN IS NOT ON THE LINE WITH
US, CORRECT?
>> KENNEDY THAT IS CORRECT.
OK, SO THEN WE CAN MOVE ON TO
WE DON'T HAVE ANY OLD BUSINESS
AT THIS TIME.
NO BUSINESS ON THE AGENDA.
OK, THANK YOU.
SO NEW BUSINESS TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR YOU GUYS TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR CALENDARS ARE PRINTED AND
HERE PRETTY CRAZY ARE TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR IS IS RAPIDLY
APPROACHING SO I WANTED TO SEE
IF WE ARE ABLE TO APPROVE THE
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR CALENDARS
FOR THE COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY ISSUES AS WELL AS
THE TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
CALENDARS FOR THE PARTNERS AND
ACCESS SUBCOMMITTEE.
I DIDN'T KNOW IF ANYONE HAD
CHECKED OUT THOSE CALENDARS
LOOKED AT THE DATES, HAD ANY
ISSUES ON THEM AT ALL BUT
PLEASE YOU KNOW IF THERE IS A
MOTION TO APPROVE THESE
CALENDARS AND ALL OF US HAVE NO
ISSUE IS THERE A MOTION TO TO
PROVE A POINT OF ORDER HOLD ON
TO YOUR POINT OF ORDER.
I DID WANT TO REFERENCE THAT
FOR THE KODAI MEETING IN JUNE
JUNE 19TH IS WHEN IT WOULD BE
BUT THAT IS A FEDERAL HOLIDAY.
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR WILL BE
CLOSED SO THE COMMISSION WOULD
THEN NEED TO VOTE EITHER TO
CANCEL THAT MEETING OR TO
RESCHEDULE IT FOR A DIFFERENT
DAY THAT MONTH.
UNDERSTOOD.
OK, OBVIOUSLY OTHER THING I'D
LIKE TO MENTION THE WHERE WE GO
AS FOR THE CIA, I'D LIKE TO
CHANGE A DAY FROM WEDNESDAY TO
ANY OTHER DAY.
OK, I'D LIKE TO TRY TO CHANGE
THAT TO EITHER A TUESDAY OR
MAYBE A THURSDAY WOULD BE GOOD.
WE COULD KEEP AT THE SAME TIME
IF THAT NEEDS TO BE BUT I'D
LIKE TO JUST CHANGE THE DAY
BECAUSE IT HAPPENS THAT MY
WEDNESDAYS ARE VERY BUSY
USUALLY AND I WANT TO BE A PART
OF THIS WHICH I DO NOT.
>> I'D LIKE TO CHANGE THE DATE
OR CHANGE THE DATE TO IT.
OK, SO WE'LL JUST GO AHEAD.
JUST FOR CLARITY IF THE
COMMISSION VOTES TO CHANGE THE
DAY OF THE PARTNERS ACCESS
COMMITTEE MEETINGS THEN THE
CALENDAR THAT IS ON THE AGENDA
TODAY WOULD BE VOID AND SO WE
WOULD NOT VOTE ON THE CALENDAR
FOR THE PARTNERS AND ACCESS
COMMITTEE TODAY THAT CALENDAR
WOULD NEED TO BE VOTED ON AND
APPROVED IN DECEMBER.
>> WE COULD VOTE CALENDAR.
>> CORRECT.
YET YOU WOULD YOU WOULD BE ABLE
TO VOTE ON THE COMMISSION
CALENDAR BUT THE SUBCOMMITTEE
CALENDAR WOULD THEN BE PUSHED
FOR APPROVAL IN DECEMBER.
UNDERSTOOD.
WELL, FIRST OF ALL, HOW DOES
EVERYBODY FEEL ABOUT THE
CALENDAR AND YOU KNOW, THE JUNE
DATE?
DO WE FEEL THAT WE SHOULD, YOU
KNOW, CANCEL THAT ENTIRE JUNE
MEETING OR SHOULD WE SHOULD WE
LOOK AT ANOTHER DATE AND AND
SEE WHAT WORKS?
>> CATHERINE?
SO FOR ME WE ARE OFF JULY AND
AUGUST SO I'M NOT COMFORTABLE
CANCELING THE JUNE MEETING.
I THINK THAT WE WOULD BE BETTER
SERVED TO RESCHEDULE IT.
BUT I'D ALSO LIKE TO HEAR WHAT
OTHERS THINK.
BUT I THINK A THREE YEAR, THREE
MONTH HIATUS MIGHT BE TOO MUCH.
>> I AGREE.
I AGREE AND THAT'S JUST MY
CHAIR.
>> ANY OTHER FEEDBACK THERE,
COMMISSIONER CHAIR OH GO AHEAD
.
>> YES.
SO I WAS JUST GOING TO SAY THAT
I AGREE THAT I THINK THAT WOULD
BE A VERY LONG BREAK.
I DID WANT TO RESPOND TO
LARRY'S QUESTION.
I COULD DO THURSDAY BUT NOT
TUESDAY.
SO AS IF ALEX CAN DO THURSDAY A
DAY, THEN MAYBE WE CAN REGROUP
WITH KENNEDY ON THE DATES.
OK, WELL THAT WOULD THAT WOULD
WORK AND I WHEN IT COMES TO
THAT I HAVE A MOTION POINT
OF ORDER BEFORE WE APPROVE THAT
MOTION FOR THE JUNE MEETING.
WOULD YOU GUYS LIKE TO
RESCHEDULE IT FOR THE WEEK
BEFORE THE HOLIDAY OR THE WEEK
AFTER THE HOLIDAY?
>> YES, THAT'S WHERE MY MOTION
MAY COME IN.
I WAS THINKING THAT SINCE WE
HAVE SUCH A LONG TIME BETWEEN
MEETINGS THEN THAT MOVING AT
THE WEEK AFTER CASE THEN WE
COULD PREPARE FOR I THINK
THAT'S A TWENTY SIX TO JUNE.
WE CAN PREPARE FOR ALL THAT AND
CLOSE OUT THE BEFORE THE HIATUS
WE HAVE A WEEK LONGER TO CLOSE
UP BEFORE HIATUS AND FROM MY
MOTION WOULD BE WOULD BE THAT
WE MOVE THE MEETING TO THE
TWENTY SIXTH OF JUNE.
>> I THINK THAT'S IT ISN'T IT.
ISN'T IT THE TWENTY SIX.
THAT'S CORRECT YEP.
OF COURSE IF I OPEN THIS IF I
MOVE THIS THEN IT WOULD BE OPEN
FOR DISCUSSION SO MAY I MAKE
THE MOTION IS THERE ANY OTHER
DISCUSSION BEFORE WE DO IT.
>> GO AHEAD.
I'D MOVE THAT IN THAT THE JUNE
19TH MEETING BE MOVED THE RESET
TO JUNE 26 OF JUNE TWENTY SIX
ONE WEEK IN TWENTY SIX I HAD AN
HOUR BEHIND YEAH ONE WEEK OFF
OK JUNE TWENTY SIX OK CHECK ON
THE MOTION I DECKEN OK SO OK
ALL IN FAVOR OF MOVING THE JUNE
NINETEENTH MEETING TO JUNE
TWENTY SIX PLEASE UNMUTED AND
SAY I I I I OK GREAT AT KENNEDY
WE'LL GET REVISED INVITATIONS
BASED ON THAT CHANGE IS THAT
CORRECT.
>> SO WHAT.
YEP.
SO WHAT WILL HAPPEN IS AND THE
MEETING MINUTES I WILL PUNCH
ONCE YOU GUYS FELT ON THE
CALENDAR I WILL PUT NOTED THAT
THE JUNE 19TH MEETING HAS BEEN
RESCHEDULED TO THE JUNE TWENTY
SIX MEETING.
SO ONCE YOU GUYS APPROVED THE
CALENDAR THAT WILL BE UPDATED
IN THE MINUTES AND THEN THE
CALENDAR WILL BE SENT OUT AND
UPDATED.
>> SO CHAIR DAYMAN, YOU ARE I
MEAN I SURE YES.
>> I HAVE ANOTHER QUESTION DO
WE WANT THAT I'M HAVING THE I'M
CHANGING
CALENDAR FOR NEXT
MONTH TO REGISTER THE THIRD
THURSDAY OF THE MONTH AT 5:00
PM.
>> WHAT WAS YOUR QUESTION?
DO WE WANT TO VOTE ON CHANGING
THE TIME OF THE DAY FOR THE PTA
MEETING?
>> WELL, LARRY, THIS IS ZACH.
I'D LIKE US TO VOTE ON THE FULL
COMMISSION CALENDAR FIRST AND
THEN MOVE.
OK, WELL THAT'S I DIDN'T KNOW
IF WE WERE ALLOWED ABLE TO DO
THAT OR NOT BUT WE CAN DO THAT.
>> OK, THANK YOU SO REALLY
QUICKLY GUYS.
SO ALL IN FAVOR OF APPROVING
THE COMMISSION CALENDAR FOR
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR.
YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY PENDING
THAT THAT THAT UPDATE BUT DO
ALL THE OTHER DATES WORK FOR
EVERYONE?
IS THIS CALENDAR SATISFACTORY
WITH THAT ADDITION OF MOVING
THE NINETEENTH TO THE TWENTY
SIXTH YOU KNOW IS THERE THE
MOTION TO APPROVE THE
COMMISSION FOR COMMISSION
CALENDAR FOR TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
YOU MAY IF I MAY CLARIFY YOU
MAY APPROVE THE CALENDAR WITH
CHANGES WHICH WOULD BE THE
CHANGE FROM THE JUNE 19 TO THE
JUNE TWENTY SIX.
SO YOU MAY HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE CALENDAR WITH
CHANGES RIGHT.
>> THAT'S THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
SO YEAH I DO I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE CALENDAR WITH
CHANGES I KATHLEEN YOU HAVE A
QUESTION.
>> NO ACTUALLY I JUST WAS GOING
TO MAKE THE MOTION TO APPROVE
THE CALENDAR FOR NEXT YEAR OR
KODAI WITH THE CHANGE OF THE
JUNE MEETING TO THE FOLLOWING
WEEK.
>> GREAT.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE A SECOND I'LL TALK
ABOUT.
YEP.
WELL OK THANK YOU.
I'M ALL IN FAVOR OF THE
CALENDAR WITH THE CHANGE PLEASE
ON MUTE AND SAY HI I BY ALL
RIGHT THANK YOU NOW LARRY GO
AHEAD.
YOU HAD A COMMENT ABOUT THE
PARTNERS ACCESS COMMITTEE
CALENDAR ABOUT THE WEEK THAT I
BROUGHT THAT UP TOO IS BECAUSE
I WAS THINKING ABOUT NEXT MONTH
IN PARTICULAR AND MY SO I WOULD
I WOULD MOVE THAT WE HAVE THE
COMMITTEE MEETING SECOND
THURSDAY OF THE MONTH HERE
FOURTH AT 5:00 P.M.
OK, DOES
THAT WORK FOR THE OTHER MEMBERS
OF PARTNERS AND ACCESS AT THIS
TIME?
YES, THAT SHOULD WORK.
THAT SHOULD WORK JUST FINE FOR
FOR ME IT'S RACHEL.
>> THIS IS ALEX.
YEAH THAT'S A WORK FOR ME AS
WELL.
OK OK SO WITH THAT LARRY,
YOU'RE MAKING A MOTION TO TO
MOVE THE DATE OF THAT MEETING.
YOU HAVE THE SECOND DAY OF THE
MONTH INSTEAD SECOND WEDNESDAY.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
I'LL MOVE TO PROVE IS THERE A
SECOND I'LL CHECK ON IT OK.
>> ALL RIGHT ALL IN FAVOR
OF MOVING THE PARTNERS AND
ACCESS COMMITTEE MEETING FROM
ITS CURRENT DATE TO THURSDAY.
NOW PLEASE ON MUTE AND SAY I I
OH ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
>> OK, I WILL PUT ON THE
DECEMBER MEETING A CALENDAR FOR
THE PARTNERS AND ACCESS
SUBCOMMITTEE FOR TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR FOR APPROVAL.
>> THANK YOU KENNEDY.
HELLO.
>> ALL RIGHT NEXT I'D LIKE TO
MOVE DOWN TO COMMUNICATIONS.
DO WE HAVE ANY COMMUNICATIONS
AT THIS?
OK NO COMMUNICATIONS.
WELL THEN WITH THAT I WOULD
LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION TO
ADJOURN AT FIVE THIRTY SIX PM
I'LL IT.
>> ALL RIGHT LARRY SECONDS ALL
IN FAVOR OF ADJOURNMENT
OF TODAY'S NOVEMBER COMMISSION
ON DISABILITY ISSUES MEETING
PLEASE ON MUTE AND SAY I I WE
ARE ADJOURNED EVERYONE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR ALL
OF YOUR EFFORTS AND FEEDBACK AS
ALWAYS, I WILL DO MY BEST TO BE
AS OPEN AS POSSIBLE WITH ALL
OF YOU.
PLEASE DO NOT HESITATE TO REACH
OUT TO ME IF YOU NEED ANYTHING
AND PLEASE KEEP UP THE GREAT
WORK.
THANK YOU